Hey everyone, Sam Ovens here, and welcome to this module called Vision, Mission, and Principles. Now in this module I am going to explain why to take your mindset to that next level, the eight figure mindset level, it's about more than just you, and it's about more than just changing yourself and your life. In Consulting Accelerator, if you haven't done the mindset training in Accelerator, you should do that first. This is built on top of what's an accelerator in week two. And accelerator is really about changing your mindset, changing your identity, changing your life, and your situation and everything, and it's quite, it's about you because you have to start with you first. But in up level to take it to that next level, we go beyond you and we look at changing our entire market, changing the entire game, changing the world. And how we do that is through very strong, very powerful visions, missions, and principles that we clearly define and clearly articulate, and then really dedicate our life to executing them and making them become a reality. Now here's what we're going to cover in this module. Let's start with creating your own world and why pretty much all of the most successful people in the entire history of the world, they weren't just satisfied with how the world is and how other people told them that the world is. They thought they could make it better. They thought they could change it, and they essentially did. They made their own world and then lived in it. I'm going to show you why this is important if you want to go to the next level with your mindset. Then I'm going to show you why vision, mission, and principles guide behavior, and why if you want to have good behavior and choose the right decisions, execute the right actions and obviously achieve the right goals, then it all starts with vision, mission, and principles. These things are very powerful when it comes to guiding your behavior. Then I'm going to show you how to actually set these things. I'm going to show you how to set your vision, and your mission, and your principles. We're going to get them defined. We're going to write them down in this module. Setting your vision, defining the future your want, setting your mission, defining how you'll get there, setting your principles, defining your philosophy. Then once that's done, relentless belief and executing to see it through to the end. Creating your own world. Masters create worlds. After studying hundreds of the world's most successful people, I noticed that all of them cared about something so much that they devoted their existence to making it come true in the world. An example is from this book on Elon Musk. Elon's first wife, Justine says this, it's a quote from her. "He does what he wants and he's relentless about it. It's Elon's world and the rest of us just live in it." Also, people that visit Elon's offices, refer to them as Musk Land. Elon Musk is a perfect example of somebody who came into the world in South Africa as just a kid, and then thought, "You know what? I want electric cars, I want to make my own bank, and I want to go into space." So then he just made it happen. He created his own world. Really it's about going from a micro view to a macro view. Most people start out by mastering something themselves and along the way they learn that the rules and the structures of things don't make much sense and they then take upon changing the world. How it's done is the world we live in is built of philosophies, beliefs, rules, structures, systems, groups, et cetera, and none of these things are necessarily right and they change with time. Masters task themselves with correcting things. Elon didn't start by saying, "I'm going to just go to space and do all of these things." He started out by working on himself and developing his character and learning and starting to believe in himself. He started with himself. But then at a certain point he would've started to look at the world and question things, being like, "Actually that shouldn't be like that. That should be like that," and then he believed in his ability to actually change it and he did. In up level when we go to that next level with your mindset, the eight figure mindset, and I call it eight figure mindset but it's really much bigger than that. We're not just looking at changing our life. We're looking at changing the world. That's the key, going from the micro to the macro. So why vision, mission, and principles guide behavior? Man's search for meaning. Our primary drive in life is not pleasure but the discovery and pursuit of what we personally find meaningful. We want to know the meaning of our existence and our purpose and our place on Earth. The mistake I see a lot of entrepreneurs make is most entrepreneurs sit out to solve incremental problems like helping plumbers get hot water cylinder repair clients. This quest requires no vision, no principles, no culture, it doesn't really require a philosophy, there's no hot water cylinder repair philosophy that people live their lives by, and it's not motivating enough for the founder to really get out of bed, yet alone rally an army of people to help them see it through. There's nothing wrong with starting small like this. There's absolutely nothing wrong with it. Hot water cylinder repair clients, plumbers do want them, it's a real problem. I'm not belittling it. I'm just saying that you can't take something like that to the next level. It has to have much more meaning than that, to go to that next level. If you want to dig deep in yourself and find that next level of motivation and drive and power, and if you want to be able to summon it in other people too, then you need to find the mission, you need something bigger. Small basically gets small. If your vision is to get a Ferrari and make $100,000 a year, well, you'll get it. But you won't be driven to go for more. Personal wealth and possession goals are lousy short-term motivators with no philosophy or principles. You've got to think bigger than you. If your vision is to enrich yourself and get a car, you won't be able to rally an army of people to help you. To unlock the deeper levels of drive within yourself and attract an army it must be bigger than you. Your vision, mission, and principles, they're the DNA of everything, and it's the DNA of everything to come. Not just your personal behavior is affected by this, not just your personal behavior, your decisions and motivation, but your entire team. Your entire team will basically base all of their decisions, interviews and everything based of this initial stuff. So if you want it to evolve the right way, it has to be clearly defined in the initial stages because everything will replicate and propagate and include this initial blueprint. This is the code. The power of why. These are some good questions to ask yourself. And not just hypothetically. I mean, actually ask yourself these questions. Then I want you to write down the answers to them. So who would care if you went out of business tomorrow or stopped doing what you're doing? Who would care? Write down exactly who would. Pause this video and do it. Would the future of the world be any different if you stopped doing your work? Would it make any difference? And why do you exist? Why are you here? And why does your company exist, other than for the purpose of making money? This is a powerful question. Why does your company exist, other than the purpose of making money? And if you don't have a purpose for your company, other than making money, then you don't have what it takes to go that next level. You need a really strong reason why. It needs to be intense because this is the thing that's going to get you out of bed, that's going to get your team out of bed, it's going to galvanize you together and unite your whole team and your customers and everything for this massive mission. Why do you get out of bed every morning? Why do you need to make sacrifices for this thing? Why do you need to give up on some social stuff, and maybe stop drinking or partying as much? And why do you need to allocate a lot of money into growing this business and spend a lot of time on this business? Like why does this thing require sacrifices? Why is it so important? And why should others quit their jobs, relocate, work overtime, and work on weekends for this thing? Why should they do this? And why should anybody care about the work that you're doing? These are all really good questions. These questions help you start to get at the core reason of why you're doing what you're doing, which is everything really. I've included this as a PDF for download beneath this video on the Resources section. It's just called The Power of Why. I recommend downloading this, printing it out. I also recommend answering those questions because this stuff here is powerful, it will really help you find the reason why you're doing what you're doing and it will help you get through the harder times, the challenges, the set backs and everything. Now you know why it's important and why you should do it. Now let's actually define yours. Let's set your vision and define the future that you want. Your vision is the long-term 10 to 30 year future state that you see for the world, your market, your customers, your business, your team, and your products. This is your idealistic utopian view of how the world should be in the future. It's kind of like a dream. You want to really think big. Your vision is the purpose you're alive on Earth. You only get one shot at it so think big. And forget the how. Your vision is the goal, not the means to achieve the goal. So don't limit your vision by how you will achieve it because the how will change. The vision shouldn't change. This keeps it agile and adaptable. Here's some examples. SpaceX, one of Elon Musk's companies, their vision is, it goes like this: SpaceX was founded under the belief that a future where humanity is out exploring the stars is fundamentally more exciting than one where we are not. And it can also be abbreviated into Occupy Mars. Now that's a powerful vision. It's like we can either be a single planet species or we can be a multi planet species. That's a pretty big thing. That's like that's not just a small one, and it can be turned into something that people really believe in Occupy Mars and they can buy shirts. Why you're getting up in the morning? Men, we've got go and occupy Mars. What if Earth ends? The whole human race would be dead. We need to get people to Mars. You can see why this is quite a lot more powerful than just making some money. Apple is an example. Apple's vision is to make a contribution by making tools for the mind that advance humankind. Steve Jobs really wanted to combine man and machine and allow machines to unlock man's potential. That's really what he did through all the tools that they've released. Those are some examples. This is why it's important. Now let's define yours, let's define your vision. I've included this worksheet called Vision, Mission, and Principles. You want to use this to define you and your company's purpose. I've also included some examples as well as a separate resource. It's called Vision, Mission, and Principles, and then there's another one called Vision, Mission, and Principles and then in brackets it says examples. We'll start with this. It's downloadable in the Resources section beneath this video. You can download it as a PDF and then click this link and open it up in Google Docs. I recommend you use the Google Docs. It says here in the intro, why do you and your company exist, other than the purpose of making money? This is the true acid test of a company's purpose and whether it really matters. If you want your company to be successful, it has to matter to you and to other people, and it has to mean something. You want to use this worksheet to define your company's vision, mission, and principles, and you can see examples here. Where we actually want to start with this is with the problem because without vision it can be kind of hard sometimes to think exactly what we want because there's so many different things we want. It helps to start with a problem, which your business should've already started with, and why do you need to do anything at all. Like why even take action, why not just relax? Start by defining the problem you see in the world, who experiences it, why it's important, and why you feel compelled to fix it. You can state the problem here. Pause the video and do that. Then once you've defined the problem, then you can go to your vision, and that's where you want to go. The problem is why you need to do anything and why it even needs any attention. This is where you want to be in the future. Your vision statement gives the company direction, and it's the future of the business which then provides the purpose, and the vision statement is about what you want to become and it's aspirational. So you should write your vision statement here. Pause the video and do it now. Now to help you I've included some examples. This is in the Resources section as well. It's just called Vision, Mission, and Principles, then in brackets examples. I've included some of the world's most successful companies here. As you'll see, boldness and clarity of purpose are directly correlated to success. If you're going to think, you might as well think big. You can see here Apple, the problem it was solving is computers are complex, ugly, expensive, non-intuitive, and only used by scientists at large corporations. They should be available for everybody. And they set out and they did this. Microsoft was very cool. The problem was pretty much the same as Apple. They are expensive, complex, and out of reach for the average person. Their mission statement was really cool. A computer on every desk and in every home. That's so clear and so simple you can just see it. What's fascinating is back in the day when Bill Gates said that, everyone would've thought he was an idiot because computers cost like a million dollars and they were the size of a house. To imagine that there would be one on every desk and every home would be insanity. Google's vision is to provide access to the world's information in one click. Tesla, to create the most compelling car company of the 21st century and drive the world's transition to electric vehicles. Amazon, to be Earth's most customer-centric company where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online. You can see Uber. Uber's got a cool one, transportation as reliable as running water everywhere for everyone. I've got consulting.com one here, to be Earth's most results-oriented business school, where every day people can start their own business, from anywhere, in any niche. You've got lots of examples here. You want to start with the problem, define that, and then define your vision. You can use the examples I provided to do that. Pause this video now and get it done. Now let's set your mission and let's define how you'll get there. Your mission explains how you plan to get where you want to be in the future. It's more grounded in today's reality, goals, and immediate actions. So it's the how. The vision is the future, like the what, where. Then this is how. You want to make your mission statement clear. People should be able to read it once and know exactly what to do, and that includes you. It shouldn't be vague and when you read it you're like, "Oh. what do I do?" Your mission statement should also inspire action and it should inspire immediate, deliberate, and compelling action that supports the vision you have for the future. This will help you and your team pedal in right direction. When you start to get a team together, you can't be there to police everyone and motivate them and tell them what to do all the time. It's impossible. When you have a clear vision, mission, and principles, it helps everyone start pedaling in the right direction and start innovating and thinking in the right direction. That builds momentum. Microsoft is an example. A computer on every desk and in every home. That short, sharp, simple everyone understands what we're trying to do here. We're trying to make ... We're trying to democratize computers, get them to everyone everywhere, and in their homes, not just businesses. Google as an example, to organize all of the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful. Everyone at Google is like, "What are we doing? Oh yeah, that's right, organize all of the world's information and we've got to make it universally accessible and useful." These things, they're short and simple, but it really helps everyone to understand what they're doing. Same with you. These mission statements are also helpful for the founder to read because the founders are forgetful too. Uber is an example. Transportation as reliable as running water everywhere for everyone. You know why you should have one. I've shown you some good examples. Now let's define yours. Let's define your mission statement. We'll use the same worksheet for this, and it's called Vision, Mission, and Principles. We just go down to the Mission part. How do you plan to get there? Your mission statement talks about how you will get where you want to be in the future, and it's more grounded in today's reality, goals, and immediate actions. Write your mission statement below. You want to write this down. Pause the video and get it done. I've also included these examples here in the Resources. Apple's was to make simple, intuitive, beautiful products anybody can use to learn about and express themselves. We've got Tesla, to accelerate the world's transition to sustainable energy by making the world's most exciting car, that's electric without compromises. Amazon, we strive to offer our customers the lowest possible prices, the best available section, and the outmost convenience. You can see all of these. Pause this video. Get your mission defined. Now let's set your principles. This is where we really define your philosophy. Your principles are fundamental truths or propositions that serve as the foundation for you, your team, and your customers' belief system, behavior, and chain of reasoning. It's the source code of your entire reality. Your principles should be clear. You want to clearly articulate your principles, their meaning, and they should be unmistakable. Someone shouldn't hear it and think they're applying it and living by it and then find out that they actually aren't. That's dangerous. They should be very clear and unmistakable in their understanding, in their propagation when they're told to other people, and in their execution. You want to be opinionated. Your principles must be strongly opinionated, not wishy-washy. What I mean by this is you don't want to kind of stand in the middle of everything. You want to be very, very, very sharp with exactly what you mean. You want to be different. Don't copy other people's principles. They must be your own and they must be real. People who just make up principles, no one will ever use them including yourself so it's just totally useless. To help you understand principles, here's Google as an example. Google says these things. This is how they build their culture and their belief system and everything they do. This guides them. Focus on the user and all else will follow. It's best to do one thing really, really well. Fast is better than slow. Democracy on the web works. You don't need to be at your desk to need an answer. You can make money without doing evil. There's always more information out there. The need for information crosses all borders. You can be serious without a suit. Great just isn't good enough. These are pretty cool. This one here is like customer obsession that Amazon has. If someone's unsure of what to do here, this principle just means focus on the user and everything else with happen. Then if someone's trying to decide between doing lots of stuff or one thing, it's best to do one thing really, really well, so they're like, "Okay, cool, let's just focus on this and nail it." Fast is better than slow. This means if someone's saying, like, "Oh, it's going to take this long or that long," people are going to be relentless and demanding it must be done faster all the time because you're saying fast is better than slow. Democracy on the web works. They try to stay out of it. They try to stay quite neutral and let people vote. And they do that very well compared to Facebook and stuff. Google search is very [inaudible 00:25:49] and it's not polluted with ads and all of this stuff. You don't need to be at your desk to need an answer. This is meaning that when we're designing Google products, we should think about mobile, like mobile is equally as important if not more important than computer. You can make money without doing evil. We're a business, we want to make money. But that doesn't mean we want to be evil about it. You can see what I mean here. These principles help guide their philosophy and their worldview. They're just as much for the owner and the founder than they are for everybody else. Here's Tesla's for example. Move fast, do the impossible, constantly innovate. Reason from first principles, think like owners, and we are all in. These are things that people, they can ... everyone unites with these principles. Let's define yours now. That's the same worksheet that we had from before, Vision, Mission, and Principles, and we just scroll down to the principles part. It says here what fundamental beliefs is your philosophy and worldview built on? Your principles are fundamental truths or propositions that service the foundation for you, your team, and your customers belief system, behavior, and chain of reasoning. You want to state your principles below. So what are the beliefs and fundamental truths that you believe and that you want to build your world on? This takes time. This might take a couple of hours, but it's so important, it's so important you to take the time to do this. I've included some examples. Apple's, make great products, simplicity, saying no, collaboration, accessibility, own the entire user experience, innovation, never settle for anything less than excellence. Google's got good ones, same with Tesla. Amazon has good ones like customer obsessed. That's Amazon's big one, they're always talking about the customer, the customer, the customer. Then ownership, think and act like owners, invent and simplify, be right a lot, hire and develop the best, insist on the higher standards, think big, have a bias for action, frugality, vocally self-critical, earn the trust of others. I've included consulting.com's one. Student obsession, results oriented, long term thinking, bold bets, radical transparency, lean and frugal, excruciatingly high standards, our clients success is our success, market backwards, simplicity less is more, focus is everything, do less better, question everything and hold nothing sacred in the pursuit of truth, reason from first principles, think and act like owners, authority means nothing, be all in or go home. I've given you lots of examples here, and now I want you to pause this video and take the time to write yours here. Now these are things that you might edit a little bit later on, but you're not going to really be making dramatic changes to these things. It's not like you're changing your ads or your landing page or something. This is your actual belief system and so you wouldn't do a full 180 on these things. This is pretty much set from the beginning and then you can make tweaks and adjustments, but you really want to take the time to ask yourself like what do I believe in, what do I really want. One of the things that I believe to be true that I want my team to believe and that I want to build this whole world on is very important this stuff. It might seem like, "Oh, this isn't real stuff, we're not doing ads or landing pages." This is bigger than that. Ads and landing pages are for people who just want to make a little bit of money. People who want to make billions and change the world, they focus on this stuff and then all that other stuff just happens. Now let's talk about the final thing you need once you've defined all of this. Once you've defined the problem you solve, you vision you have of the future and your mission, the immediate goal that you're going to execute upon right now and the principles that you have that you want to build your philosophy on, once you've defined these things, then the only thing that's needed is relentless belief and execution to see it through until it's done. Seeing it through. The easy part is defining the vision, mission, and principles. The hard part is executing the plan and seeing it through to completion. One thing is absolutely for sure. It will not be easy. You need relentless leadership. Without a relentless leader, even the best plan will fail, and you must take ownership for your vision and how the world should be and care about it more than anybody else on earth. A leader is really somebody who says, "This is what I believe, this is the future that I want," rallies people with them, and then the leader cares about it more than anyone. They know that really their success is just going to be a result of their human will, and if they will it more than anybody else they will win. That's all it really is once it's defined and articulated and you know what you're doing, it's just a test of human will, who wants it bad enough, who wants it the most. There always has to be a relentless leader at the top. Never deviate or forget why. In short-term plans initiatives and products and businesses may change. But never deviate from your vision or your reason why. Your vision of what you want in the future and your principles and the things that you believe, you shouldn't really deviate or forget these things. The initiatives and the technologies and the things you do and all of that, those things change, but these other things. they're very fixed, and you want to stay true to them. If you read the 1997 letters to shareholders from Jeff Bezos for Amazon, when he wrote that first letter, he said exactly what he believed and what he wanted to build, and then he stayed true on that path for more than 20 years and he did it. That's what you need. You can't waive it. You have to see it through. Then relentless belief. So you must believe in your vision and never waiver. Even in the face of extreme failure, uncertainty, humiliation, disbelief from the world, and disbelief from your entire team, you must believe, you must keep the belief. If you read the book on Jeff Bezos which is called The Everything Store, they talk about how Amazon went through turmoil. You think Amazon has just had an easy life. I mean, they got scrutinized and crucified earlier on. It was relentless. But one thing that everyone said about Bezos is he just never stopped believing. He was relentless. He never stopped trying. He never stopped caring and he never stopped believing, and he just kept at it, and he was so determined, and he was so pigheaded with just being, going at it again, again, again, again, again, and never giving up that it happened. That's what you need to have if you want to take your mindset to the next level. You need to set the plan, set your philosophy and your beliefs, your vision for the future, and never let it go, never flinch, and don't take your eye off the ball for a second. Relentless execution. So you must take action towards your vision more than anybody else. And you must set an example of how important this work is and how seriously intensely it must be done. Even when everything is going against you, and everybody else is worn out and defeated, you must prevail. It doesn't matter what happens. It doesn't matter how worn out you are, how worn out your team is, if people are giving up, if people are defeated and tired. You have to keep going. When you do that it, everyone else will start to notice and they will just reflect your behavior. This is so important, and it all starts with that belief, the vision, the principles because that's what will keep you going when it gets tough. Here is a pin up that I've included for download beneath this video. It's just like a quote that you can put on your wall so that you can remember this. You want to be relentless. Every setback, struggle, failure and criticism only makes you want it more. And come hell or high water you will get it done. There's a bunch of words here that basically mean the same thing as relentless, like constant, incessant, persistent, continuing, continuous, nonstop, never-ending, unabating, interminable, unceasing, endless, unflinching, unending. These are the words of success. Once you have the vision, the mission, and the principles defined, you do this. And come hell or high water you get it done and you just hammer it into the fabric of the universe, and you don't stop until it's done. When you do that, if you never stop and you just are relentless in your pursuit, and you care about it more than anyone else on Earth, then it will get done. That's how it works. You really want to make sure that you remind yourself to be relentless and to keep looking back at your vision, mission, and principles. I've included two things here, a relentless pin up which you can put on your wall, the red one, and a relentless background for your computer background. I put this as my background too. The relentless pin up is a good one for like wall or whatever. It's red. Then this one here, you can set as your computer background. It's like a Mac background but it's just got this over the top of it. It's just subconsciously reminding you all the time. You see your computer background all the time and it's just going to say this to you every time and it's going to subconsciously just wear into your brain. I recommend setting this as your computer background, putting the red one on your wall, and making sure that you have your vision, mission, and principles printed out and defined too. You want to look at these things all day, all the time, and you want to basically brainwash yourself and become a relentless possessed leader that is going to get this thing done. Throughout week seven of up level which is eight figure mindset, I'm going to show you how to develop that character. We start here in this module Vision, Mission, and Principles, we start by defining and articulating these things, and knowing we need to become relentless, and staying relentless, and throughout the rest of the modules here in week seven I'm going to show you how to become that relentless character. That's it for this module. Thanks for watching and I look forward to seeing you in the next one now. 