Hey everyone, Sam Ovens here, and welcome to this module called Idiosyncratic Thinking. Now, in this module, I'm going to show you how to think differently. Idiosyncratic basically means different, abnormal, not the same as everybody else, and when it comes to taking a mindset to the next level, and when it comes to mastery and changing the rules of the game and really pushing the limits, you have to think differently. Normal gets normal, and so when you're trying to do something abnormal, you can't achieve it through normal. Normal gets normal, and to get abnormal we have to input abnormal. Abnormal behavior stems from abnormal beliefs and abnormal thinking, and that's why it's so important that you form your own idiosyncratic worldview, your own combination of mental models and theories and fields, your own way of perceiving the world, your own paradigm, your own worldview. This is at the core of everything. I mean, you need to have self discipline, you need to be relentless, and you need to be consistent, and you also need to be driven, and you also need to have a target. You need to have a vision and a mission, but you also need to have a unique way of perceiving and understanding the world, and in this module I'm going to show you how to do that, and also how I've done that for myself. So here's what we're going to cover. Why normal gets nothing and nothing is true, and why masters reinvent the rules of the game, and then I'm going to show you how to form your own unified field theory. Then I'm going to introduce you to four weapons when it comes to forming your own unified field theory, when it comes to forming your mental model and the way you perceive the world. I'm going to provide you with some key pillars here, key things that everybody should have. On top of these pillars, you will build your own unique model, but these should lay at the heart and the foundation of it. Weapon number one is critical thinking. Weapon number two is first principles thinking. Weapon number three is scientific method, and then weapon number four is strange latticework. I'm going to show you what all of these things are with examples and everything. So this is going to be a good one. This is going to teach you how to think. So why normal gets nothing and nothing is true. So the greatest of all time, you know, people like Einstein, Tesla, Newton, Darwin, da Vinci, Michael Jordan, Schumacher, Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, Jeff Bezos, Elon Musk, Sam Walton, et cetera, they didn't succeed by being normal. They were abnormal, and they changed the rules of the game. Normal gets normal. Normal thinking equals normal beliefs which equals normal actions which equals normal outcomes. You take normal action, you get normal outcome, and a normal outcome is what most people have. Normal thinking is, "Oh, let's go to university. Let's get a job, and then let's save for a house and get married and then retire later." That's normal thinking. Those are normal beliefs, and that leads to normal actions which leads to a normal outcome. What we're trying to do here isn't normal. What normal really is, is normal is blind adherence to the status quo and the way things are currently done, and it's a recipe for mediocrity. Abnormal gets abnormal. So abnormal thinking equals abnormal beliefs which equals abnormal actions which equals abnormal outcomes. Abnormal is questioning the status quo and the way things are done, and it's a recipe for revolution and success. Manufacturing normal. How come most people just get kind of pushed out of a mass cookie cutter kind of machine as normal? Well, most people believe what they're told, and they don't question it or how it originated, and they're indoctrinated by their families, schools, TV, et cetera. And you know, it's not even really their fault. They just get kind of pushed into it, indoctrinated and brainwashed, and then they never question it, and then they live within the confinements of the truth, or their perceived truth. They kind of just form their own kind of box, and then they just stay in it. What you need to understand is that nothing is true. What I mean by this is that truth and facts change over time as we discover new things and take different perspectives, and absolute truth implies that we know everything, have discovered everything, and viewed every possible perspective. So this is what a lot of people don't understand. They believe, oh, this is a fact, this is absolutely true. And I don't want you to misconstrue this with like if someone's lying or telling the truth. I mean, if I ... Let me give you a real simple example. Let's say I crash your car and then I come inside, and then you ask me, "Hey, did you crash my car?" and I say no, right? Then I'm lying, and that isn't the truth, but what I'm talking about here ... And I'm not trying to say that there is no such thing as lying or anything like that. People often get this confused. What I'm trying to say here is when making observations about things, then there's no such thing as the absolute truth. Because you know, way back in the day, if people looked out across earth, if you're standing on earth and you look out across it, it looks flat. You cannot tell me that if you're standing on earth and you look out across it, that you think it's a big round ball spinning around really fast. No way. You cannot have that perception because it is impossible to perceive that by standing there and taking that perspective. It's the last thing you would think. So you would very much think it is flat, and you would consider that a fact because it absolutely is not round and spinning from where you're standing. And so that's what people would call a fact, but then as we evolved and discovered more things about planets and motion and gravity and the solar system, and then as we could take different perspectives by sending satellites out into space and things, it became we were able to take a different perspective. We were able to look at things from a different point of view, and then we were able to understand, oh, so it is round, but it just looks flat from where you're standing. So that's what happens: as soon as you take a different perspective, then things change. To think that we know the absolute truth implies that we know absolutely everything there is to know, which we don't, that we have discovered everything, which we haven't, and viewed every possible perspective, which we haven't. So you should still kind of believe in facts as the most true statement and observation at this current point in time, but that does not mean that it's true forever, and that's what I'm trying to say here. I see people make this mistake all the time. They hear something said by someone one time and then they just, they're rigid and stuck in that perspective, and they can't think beyond the box that they have defined for themselves. That can cause a lot of trouble, and so you've got to understand that nothing is true and there's no such thing as really the facts forever. The best way I can describe this is with this simple example here. So what's this? Well, it's a square. Looks like a square. And then if you showed this to someone, you'd be like, "What is it?" It's a square. "Are you sure?" And they'd be like, "Yes, that's a fact." And then if you showed them this, you'd be like, "What is this?" It's a circle. "Are you sure?" Yes, that's a fact. But then, if we zoomed out, and we're like, "Well, what's this?" Then that person's going to be like, "Oh, shit, I didn't know that. I didn't know that's what I was looking at. I didn't have that perspective. I didn't have that point of view. I didn't have that information." And then you're like, "Are you sure?" Well, yes, that's a fact. So here's a perfect example of how we're actually perceiving the world every day, is we might be looking at this thing over here and we think we can see it, and we're sure we can see it the way it is, and we're sure this is the way it is and it's a fact. Then we see this other thing and we think this thing is separate than that thing and that they're different, but then later on we take a different perspective and then we see, oh, my God, we're actually looking at the same thing, but this was just a reflection of that thing and that was a reflection of that, and it's actually all just the same thing, all right? This is what I'm talking about. This is how humans perceive the world. If you don't believe that humans are very fallible and wrong, then just look through history. I you look through history, you'll see that it's unbelievable how wrong humans are all the time, even recently, with all sorts of things. In Leonardo da Vinci's time, people thought that the brain was a blood cooling device. People thought that, back in Isaac Newton's time, they thought that the planets and things moved around because there were gods in the sky that pushed them with their finger. That's actually what was believed to be true, but then Newton dug deeper and he discovered that these bodies, they used these laws and these motions, and they resembled patterns and repeat kind of behavior. He was able to create a new view of the world. His view of the world dramatically changed everything, and it dramatically changed the way every human being viewed reality. This is the point that I'm trying to get across here. Nothing is forever true or nothing is forever a fact. Things change with time, and they change by the different perspectives you take. There's no absolute truth or facts. It depends how you look at it. And the masters, they look at it differently and they think differently. So why masters reinvent the rules of the game. So the rules of the game are the paradigms, facts, and truths of the time, and together these form like the status quo, the current way everything is believed, the current truth. Rules are established by people who have gone looking deep into their field and made observations about phenomena and created a set of concepts, theories, and laws that explain how things work. Most people follow rules because they're indoctrinated from birth and they have no choice, and they also have little confidence in their own ability, and they don't ask or they don't question teachers, elders, or figures of authority because they think, "Well, who am I to challenge this person?" or if they do challenge that person, the other person will be like, "Look, don't ask questions of me. I'm the teacher. I'm the adult. I know." So this is why most people just follow the rules. Masters, they start the same way. So they're born into this world the same way that everyone else is, and they're indoctrinated the same way that everyone else's, and they even think and believe the same things everybody else does. That's until they advance, and when they advance, they start questioning everything. So masters follow the rules and start advancing their knowledge, but they start to notice discrepancies and glitches in things, and this worries them, so they start asking questions. That's when it all starts to unravel. Masters question everything. They don't break the rules because they want to disobey them. They break them because they make no sense, and to them, they're like, "Sure, this is the rule, but I'm not going to follow it because it's just stupid." And so they take a different path. When they do this, the whole world starts to notice, and they're like, "Hey, that path kind of looks better and it kind of makes sense." Then it becomes the new norm, and with time it becomes the new status quo, until someone reinvents it again. To take your mindset, life, and business to the next level, you've got to think differently. That's why the title of this module is Idiosyncratic Thinking. So idiosyncratic thinking is unusual, odd, eccentric, and peculiar thinking, and it's the X factor that allows the masters to perceive and build a new reality. This is what we're going to show you how to do. How do we actually do that? So we form a unified field theory, and we help you form your own unified field theory. So a unified field theory is a term used in physics to attempt to describe all fundamental forces and relationships between particles in one universal framework, and it's an attempt to create a theory of everything so that humans can understand the world they live in and why things occur the way they do. It's kind of like a paradigm of interlaced paradigms, right? That's unified field theory. Masterful businessmen form their own unique unified field theories by learning the ins and outs of hundreds of different things, and then they attempt to tie them all together and reconcile their interconnections. Why do they do this? So they can perceive the world they live in more accurately than everybody else. This gives them an extreme advantage in business because they can see things through different lenses and perspectives. Most people can't see. They learn one discipline, like law, accounting, tax, or marketing, and they can only perceive the world through that one lens, and this taints their view, clouds their vision, and it's a big disadvantage. Idiosyncratic thinking starts by questioning everything and lacing together your own unified field theory made up of hundreds of different fields, paradigms, philosophies, disciplines, et cetera, and you work on this for life. A prime example of a unified field theory would be someone like Elon Musk. So Elon Musk, he's not just a ... You don't think of him as like a CEO. He's not some dude in a suit with an MBA or something who's just good at being a corporate person. You don't see that. And then, he's not like a really good speaker or persuader or anything. He's not a good salesperson. You actually can't really put your finger on it. What the hell is this dude? And really, he's a combination of a lot of different things. So he's got a fascination for science fiction. He also knows physics very well. He's obsessed with space. He also knows psychology and how the brain works. He knows a lot about raising capital. He also knows how to make good products, and he knows about the product development process. He's also a good leader, and he knows a psychology and engineering. He knows engineering very well, and he knows software, too. The combination of all of these different things together kind of makes him a one-of-a-kind unique businessman that's been able to create PayPal, Tesla, and SpaceX. He's been able to beat NASA at sending rockets into space. He's been able to beat every car company in making the best car on earth ever. It actually got that rating, like they actually rated it the best car ever. Not even in the category of electric, just in all categories. And to show you how far he pushed the status quo, the status quo was that electric cars couldn't work, and that electric cars, if they did work, they'd be slow and lame. Not only did he make electric cars work, but he made them faster than any production car on earth ever, faster than a Bugatti Veyron. So talk about beating the status quo. So the way he did this is by having a unified field theory of all of these different disciplines all tied together that allows him to see the world in a different way and think in different ways and take different actions that give him a massive advantage. So now that you know what one of these things is, let's start forming yours now, and to help you form your unified field theory, I'm going to introduce you to four main things that you want to build into your unified field theory. This is basically your paradigm and your worldview, your way of perceiving and interacting with reality, and there's some things which I believe are crucial to have in there, and these are at the heart and the foundation of my own a paradigm. I'm going to show you what they are right now so that you can add them into yours. The first one, weapon number one, is critical thinking. So critical thinking is a method of analyzing information critically to determine its validity and usefulness. Normal people judge information by its source or its channel and how well it fits what they already believe. For example, they might say, "Oh, it was on the news, so it must be true," or, "The government said it, and the government wouldn't lie," and, "Yeah, I think that's the truth because that's what I've been hearing. Lots of people have been saying the same thing. Oh, it must be the truth." All right? This is what normal people think. They might look to see whether someone looks like they're successful or not, and then actually listen if then that person who looks successful is speaking, and they might think, "Oh. This has to be true because this person looks successful." That's craziness. This is the normal way people think, and I'm not even joking. This is the way it is. And then critical thinkers judge information critically by questioning it and challenging it, regardless of its source. So an example is doctors, government, and the news say smoking isn't bad for health. Now, normal people, if the doctors, the government, and the news told them that smoking wasn't bad for their health, they would think, "Oh, those guys wouldn't lie. They know, so it mustn't be bad for health." But a critical thinker would think, "Well, how do they know that? Where's the data? Show me something. I'm not just going to take your word for it. Show me. Prove it." Masters think critically. They're extremely careful about what they believe to be true, and they ruthlessly analyze information and fact check it before they commit it to the unified field theory they use to perceive the world. You want to assume everything is wrong until proven right. So to protect yourself from misinformation, you should default to assuming all information is wrong until it's scientifically proven right, regardless of who told you or their level of authority or their confidence or emotion when they delivered the information. And this is really powerful, this, because most people just walk around, and the radio's blasting information to them. All of these podcasts are in their ears. They've got eBooks, they're reading different books, they're on social media, and then they go into the workplace, and then they're around their family and their friends and their social circles. All of these things are pushing information at you, all right? All of these different things. And really, what you're doing is you're taking in all of those pieces of information, and if you're not examining it critically, then all sorts of information that's wrong is going to go into your brain and into your unified field theory of how you perceive the world. It might not seem like much at first, but before long, you're brainwashed and stupid. You don't even know how to live in the world because you're just ... All you can see is through this dirty, tainted lens that is totally inaccurate, but you aren't even able to be aware that what you're seeing isn't accurate. So it's really bad. That's why you want to be careful of what you let in because there's no way to protect yourself from information. It comes at you everywhere. I try a lot to isolate myself from different things, like I don't watch the news, I don't have a Facebook newsfeed, I don't have apps on my phone, I don't hang out with negative people, and I do lots of things to try and police it, but it still doesn't stop it from coming at me. And so to really protect myself, I have to assume everything's wrong until proven right. So if someone's telling me something and they're sure of it and they're sure of it, and they're a figure of authority or all of this, I still am kind of listening, but mostly I'm like, "Yeah, I'll add that to an experiment for later, and I'll see ... I'll test that one." All right? I can't tell you how many times this has helped me in my life. A lot of successful people have sworn by something and told me, "Dude, you need to do this. Dude, you need to do this," and you know, I've done it, and it hasn't worked, or I've done it and it worked worse than what I was currently doing. The reason why they were probably so confident about it was because they just thought of it and they thought it was right, whereas a lot of the stuff that I run, it's actually been experimented and proven right in reality. And so you've got to be careful about what you let in. You've got to assess everything critically. So how do you think critically? Other than assuming everything's wrong until proven right, how do you analyze that information and be able to judge it and be able to decipher it and unpack it? So I've created a few tips and tricks for how to think critically, and I've broken it into one, two, three, four, five parts, all right? So part one is to understand the objects, and to do that, first of all, you'll want to remove yourself. So you want to take a third party observer's view of the situation, and don't think as a participant. If you're a participant in a situation, you can't really think clearly because you're in it, so you have to remove yourself and look at yourself from the third person and look at the other participants from the third person. Then you want to remove the identities. So you want to form an abstract understanding of things as objects and relationships to bring clarity, and what I mean by this is, as long as we're viewing things as people or faces or human beings and things, then it's near impossible to actually be objective because we just carry so much bias. So we have to objectify things. So if I'm Sam and someone else is called Lauren, then instead of having us as Sam and Lauren, we just have to literally form a box for Sam and a box for Lauren, and then we look at the relationships between them. So Sam said this, then Lauren said that back to Sam, then Sam did this action, and then Lauren did this action. Right? So we're looking at the objects, which are the different pieces in the information, and the relationships of the different flows of information or actions that bring together these objects into a situation. To give you an example of this is, in Consulting Accelerator and in Uplevel, I objectify things a lot. For example, I say niche, right? So niche is an object that I use all the time, and people ... When I say niche, everyone's supposed to figure it out their niche. And then I say, well, what's the problem? So a niche is the nexus of the thing, and then from that stems a problem, and then from that problem stems a solution. When a solution is applied to a problem that is owned by a niche, then that creates value as a byproduct. All right? So instead of having this complex damn thing, like of looking at every individual business differently, because people are always trying to tell you how their thing's different and their history and their past and their stories and ... They just try to just throw a blizzard of information at you. I just say, what's the niche? What's the niche? What's the niche? All right, what's their problem? What's their problem? What's their problem? Okay? Just listen to my Q and A calls or anything. You can see what I do to these things. I am objectifying these things, and then their relationships between them, and it just makes me be able to understand things clearly really fast, no matter how much information and crap people are throwing at me because I'm just looking for these things. So whenever you're receiving information, you want to identify the objects. So what people or things are they talking about, and what words are they using to define them? So someone might be talking about their business, but they might not make it clear that they're talking about their business, so you have to figure out, are they referring to this business? And then this other person they're talking about, is this a customer or is this a prospect? And you're trying to ... And then they've got this other thing over here, is this a separate business or is this a product, or is now ... Have they changed the topic and now they're talking about something else? You're trying to identify the objects, and people often use multiple different words to talk about the same objects, which is how they confuse the hell out of themselves and you. So within an object, you might have lots of different words that are all used to identify the same object, all right? That means that words can't confuse you as much because you're still talking about the same thing, even though different words are being said. Then once you've identified the objects, you want to identify the relationships. So how do these objects relate to each other and in what directions? So a prime example of this would be ... I will just find you the organic attraction methods. Is this the ... Yeah, the new age ... So this is a prime example from Uplevel where ... Here's a prime example of me objectifying things, and the relationships between these things are the arrows, all right? So I'm kind of identifying these are the core objects, and these are the relationships between these core objects. And then here's another one. I'm explaining how we get clients using organic methods by identifying these objects, the interconnections and relationships between the objects, and then I'm even going to classify these objects into four different classes, all right? So you can have objects, the main pieces, then the relationships, that's the arrows between them. And these errors can go one way or two ways, and they can go between multiple things or one thing, and they don't always have to be linear, they can be nonlinear and have like a feedback loop mechanism in there. And so we're identifying the relationships, the objects, and then we may even add classes. And classes are classifying different objects into categories that share affinity, right? These objects are kind of similar, although they're different, so we class them as hunting. These objects are kind of similar, but different, so we class them as advancing. You get my point. This is kind of what I'm talking about. And then you want to identify the time sequence, so when and in what order did these objects relate to each other. So when someone tells you something, or when someone's trying to pass over a piece of information, they do it in a chaotic, like neurotic, like literally near going to the insanity ward kind of way, right? They deliver it and you're not even sure where the start is or where the end is, and it's looping around and it's going all over the place, and you don't even know what they're talking about. And this is what people do. People get confused, and they get caught up in their own minds, and they don't clearly see things. Almost nobody can think and see clearly. And so you've got to identify the objects first, then the relationships between the objects. And then you need to know the time sequencing, so what came first, what was the first event that happened or the nexus of this thing, and then how did it stem from there, and in sequence, so you can understand it. So when I basically deciphered my journey of how I got to where I am as a consultant, I had to go back and identify the objects like picking the niche, solving the problem, all of these things, and then I had to identify the sequencing and the timing of things. Like, you can't find a problem without finding a niche, because a problem for who? A problem for what? So niche comes first, then comes problem. Well, how do we know the problem? Well, we ask the niche. Well, how do we know the niche? Well, because you chose it. Okay, well, now I have the problem and the niche, what do I do now? Well, now you should see if you can come up with a solution. That's the time sequencing of things. Just by identifying the objects, the relationships, and the time sequence, we've pretty much figured out this whole damn thing without having to listen to all the noise and all the crap that people try and surround it with. So a lot of people are putting in their story, and their thoughts about different things, and how they're feeling, and all of this other stuff, but you're just looking at objects, relationships and timing sequences. So if you've ever wondered how does Sam rapidly answer so many questions on all those Q&A's all the time, with all of these different questions, and different people, and different situations, it's because all I'm looking for is objects, relationships, and sequences. And this makes it real simple for me to do what I do. Without those, I'd be screwed. And then you want to remove ambiguity. So like I said, people use multiple words to describe objects, relationships, and you need to remove the ambiguity. So you need to figure out, if someone's using four different words to describe one thing, you need to check like, hey, you said this, what do you mean by this? Oh, okay, so you mean that? And then they're like, "Yep," or, "No," then there might be another object in the picture that you're not quite sure of. So you have to make sure that you fully understand. And if people use four different words to describe the same object, put those four words in that object, now you know how it works, or that you might uncover another object. And then you need to remove emotions. So don't count emotions as objects or relationships. Remove them from the equation. So an emotion isn't really an object in the sequence. If someone feels like this, it doesn't mean that that happened, and it doesn't mean that that was an event or anything, you know what I mean? This can confuse you when you start to build in emotions into the picture. So you just want to discount them and remove them. And then you need to remove loops. So people may loop the same object or relationship flow in multiple times and different ways. So people will often repeat the same thing and, oh, but, yeah, I still feel like this, and I still feel ... And they're basically just looping around saying the same damn thing. You need to remove those loops and be like, "Well, so tell me what happened first. Now, tell me what happened next." And then when you understand that flow or sequence, you know it. It doesn't matter if they keep looping in their heads and keep telling you the same thing, you know the flow of how this thing actually went down. And so that's part one, understanding the objects. And then critical thinking, part two, is examining the argument. So once we've got a clear picture and an abstract kind of view of the different objects, and the relationships, and all of that, then we can kind of see things clearly, right? And we have removed a lot of the detail, and chaos, and noise away from the picture, or we've got a simple picture. And then we want to examine the argument. So we want to identify what the argument is for or against by identifying its core components. So there's always a claim. Well, first of all, a good piece of information will come as an argument. It will come with a claim, and a claim is something that the argument is attempting to claim as the truth. So, webinars do not work, that could be a claim, right? And I'm attempting to claim that that is true, webinars don't work. Then a premise is a reason offered as support for the claim. And you can spot what a premise is because people give it away with these words: since, for, because, the reason that, granted that, given the fact. So let me say that again. So, webinars do not work since I've tried it for a week and it didn't work. And the reason that it didn't work is because there's a lot of people who are online advertising webinars now, and given the fact that Facebook's becoming more popular, and more people are doing webinars. Granted that, I think that ... Also, I talked to five people in a Facebook group, and they said webinars are dead, too, right? These are the things you're looking for. First of all, identify the claim, what is the thing they're claiming to be true? And then what are the premises? Premises are the pieces of evidence that support the claim. And then there's a conclusion. A conclusion is a claim that is supported by the premise. And then someone would say, so, therefore, consequently, thus, hence, accordingly. Those are the giveaways. So I'll try that again. Webinars do not work since I've tried it for the past week and it didn't work. And the reason that it didn't work is because lots of people are advertising on Facebook, and granted that Facebook's become more busy, and given the fact I also talked to five people in a Facebook group and they said the same thing, webinars are dead. So therefore, webinars are dead, all right? That's a made up, all right? But it's an example. Now, if somebody said that thing to me, I'm ... just cutting it up, and I'm looking at claim, okay? Premises ... and then conclusion. And so I'm asking myself, okay, this is their claim, this is what they're trying to claim, and this is the evidence that they've got, and their conclusion is this based off that evidence, right? And then once you've cut it up like that, then you want to judge the argument. So determine if the arguments are valid or invalid based on the premises supporting the conclusions. So if you think these premises are really solid, then you can be like, "Okay, this argument sounds pretty good," or you can be like, "Well, based off these premises, this argument sucks." Now, a good argument might be that ... are like, webinars work because I am running one, and I've run one for three years, and it has worked every single day and made more than like a million dollars a month, every month for that time period. And I also know more than 20 other people who run webinars every day and still continue to run webinars, too. Therefore, webinars work, right? That argument is way better than the other one, because the other one is based off a lot of things they felt, or thought, or assumed, but this other argument is based off of things which are in practice, actual results. Now, when you're judging an argument, it doesn't mean that it's true, right? I could be lying, or I could be delusional and have no idea what I'm talking about. And so, you're just judging the argument, you're not actually determining whether this thing's true or not. But if the argument is really solid, that's better than if the argument is really bad. And so this is another way to really judge information, judge the argument. And a lot of time, what you'll notice is that people don't bring an argument to you. What they bring to you is like, basically nothing. People, quite a lot of the time don't ask a question, or they don't form an argument. And what they're really doing is ... I don't know. They're just kind of word spiraling. They're just kind of vomiting words out and attempting to do something, I'm not quite sure what, but that's what they're doing. And it's quite fascinating when you look at people and you're like, "Well, this guy is still just spouting over there. I don't really know what he's talking about. I don't even think he does. I wonder when this will stop." And it's quite fascinating to watch. And then they stop and kind of look at you. And then I'm like, "Well, do you have a question?" And then they're like, "Oh, oh, yeah." This happens all the time. It's fascinating. So really, communication and passing of information between different things, between different people, is someone's either fetching it by asking a question, or somebody is trying to relay a piece of information and response to that question, or somebody's trying to form an argument that something is true or not true, and they should support that argument by premises and a conclusion, all right? This is another good way to quickly decipher information. You want to view it from all angles. So take a look at all related parties, and all related angles and perspectives to see the differences. So once you've seen it from one point of view, flip to the other person and see it through their eyes, and then flip to the other person and see it through their eyes. Because every person is going to see it kind of different and it's important to see the argument from all angles. And you also want to examine the motive. So identify what all related parties want and what benefits them for others to believe and not believe. A classic example would be like when Russell Brunson called ... He said Infusionsoft, it was Confusionsoft. I think he kind of coined that name, which is kind of funny because it is quite confusing, and even made T-shirts and stuff, and he said, "You don't need Confusionsoft. All you need is ClickFunnels. And ClickFunnels is great and we use it, and it's this great thing. But the argument there is pretty weak. It's like, Infusionsoft's confusing, therefore, you shouldn't use it and you should use ClickFunnels instead for everything. Yeah, not a good argument. So first of all, it falls down with its premises aren't very valid. The conclusion based off its premises is pretty much invalid. And then when you look at it from all the angles, it falls down even further. And then when you examine the motive, it's blatant because Russell Brunson owns ClickFunnels, obviously, he wants a lot of people to use ClickFunnels. So when we just run it through this quick lens, it's just like ... just evaporates, it's nothing. We don't even need it to get into an experiment. Doesn't mean that ClickFunnels is bad, ClickFunnels is still great, but it doesn't mean that you can throw out Infusionsoft completely and use ClickFunnels as a replacement for it in its entirety, right? And by examining the motive and identifying what all parties want, and what benefits them for the others to believe or not believe, you can quickly figure out things. Now, thinking critically, part three, is to discount biases. So biases play havoc when you're trying to think critically. Biases taint everything, and there's always bias. To think any human doesn't have any biases is biased and insane. Everyone does. Some are more bias than others, but everyone has them. Here's some of the major ones that really cloud people's vision. So you want to discount authority. So don't give authority privilege when analyzing information, distrust it and be cautious. So most people think that if someone has a certificate, or if someone's an expert, or if someone's a doctor, or if somebody is on the news, or in the government, that everything they're going to say is true. It is not. They are just the same as every normal person. And in fact, if you study authority throughout history, you'll see that most of the time it's used for manipulation. So whereas most people will view authority as, oh, we should listen to this piece of information and believe it more, I see authority and think, I'm going to distrust this at least three times more than if this person didn't have authority. And I'm going to be extremely cautious and dig through this right to its core. Because to me, authority, it causes distrust. And then you want to discount consensus. So don't perceive consensus as correctness when you're analyzing information, and you want to distrust it. So if everyone is believing the same thing to be true, then that doesn't mean that you should believe it's true because everyone else does. That's crazy. That's really crazy. And that's how a lot of bad things have kind of gone on in the world. If everyone starts believing that they should go out and kill people, then to think that just because they're doing it, that we should do it too, it's crazy, doesn't change things, so don't need a skewed decision. And then discount popularity. So don't perceive your acceptance and popularity with others as a signal of accuracy. So if you think that something is true, and that is going to get you more popularity with a group, but if you think it's false, it's going to get your less popularity with a group. You shouldn't use that as any signal of accuracy. Be careful of it. Sometimes, you'll be kind of shunned from a group because you don't believe what they believe. But if actually, this other thing is more accurate, stick with the one that's accurate. Don't care about the popularity. Discount culture. So don't relate information to your culture or other people's culture, analyze it in isolation from bias. Different cultures believe different things, and that's fine. I don't think we should abolish culture, but we shouldn't let it taint our decision about what is true. Discount religion. So don't relate information to your religion or other people's religions, analyze it in isolation from bias. I'm not saying here that you have to ditch being religious, if you're religious. You can do whatever you want to do, and you should do whatever you want to do. All I'm saying is that if you're trying to make a decision about what is true in the world, you shouldn't have it skewed by what your religion believes. For example, there's all sorts of things that that people throughout the times have thought are right, like sacrificing other humans and things, because their religion told them to and stuff like. You can see how this is insane, all right? And that's what I'm talking about. So you don't want to have this one screw your thinking either. And then discount politics. So don't relate information to your political views or others, analyze it in isolation from bias. So don't think, oh, what would Hillary Clinton think of this? Or, oh, what would Donald Trump think of this? Irrelevant. They're totally irrelevant. I analyze it in isolation, Discount yourself. So don't really relate information to what you do or don't want to hear, analyze it in isolation from bias. So sometimes we bend information so that it is what we want to hear, and this is a bad one because if I'm doing something wrong and I'm losing money, and I ask my accountant, "Hey, are we losing money?" And he says back to me, "Yes." And I'm like, "Oh, cool. So basically, we're not losing any money. Cool, thanks. Thanks, man." That's mad, right? Because we are, and I'm just choosing not to hear that because I'm biased. So be careful of that. That gets people. And then discount emotion. So don't perceive your emotional response, or other people's emotional response as right or wrong when analyzing information. So if you say something to someone, and they take offense and they get offended, and then they get sad, or angry, or upset, it doesn't mean that what you said was wrong. It just means that their emotional response to it was something, right? But if somebody isn't doing their job, and they suck at what they're doing, then it's in their best interest and in your best interests to tell them that they're not doing their job and they suck at what they're doing, right? The truth always helps. And then thinking critically, part four, drill with questions. So you really want to drill until you understand. So keep asking questions to the subjects, participants, and then you can even ask questions to advisors, friends, and you can question yourself, too. And you want to question all of these sources and yourself until you believe you fully understand the nature of the thing that you're trying to think critically about. And as you dig deeper, you'll discover that it's like an onion, and you can just keep peeling layers back. And here's some different things that will help you ask questions, so who, what, where, when, why, how. These are great ways to kind of take a murky scenario, or a murky piece of information, and clarify it and crystallize it. So who benefits from this? Who is this harmful to? Who makes decisions about this? Who is most directly affected? Who have you also heard discuss this, right? The who. The what. What are the strengths and weaknesses? What is another perspective? What's an alternative? What would be a counter argument? What would be the best or worst case scenario? Where. Where would you see this in the real world? Where are there similar concepts or situations? Where is the most need for this? Where in the world would this be a problem? And then when. When is this acceptable or unacceptable? When would this benefit our society? When would this cause a problem? When is the best time to take action? Why is this a problem or challenge? Why is it relevant to me or others? Why is this the best or worst case scenario? Why are people influenced by this? My favorite question's the why. I love this question. And then how. How is the similar to x? Or how does this disrupt things? How do we know the truth about this? And how will we approach this safely? All right? This is a good kind of cheat sheet to fall back on. Whenever you're trying to unpack, and decipher, and understand, and think critically about something, you can ask these questions, and you can use these processes and quickly you'll be able to pull it apart and understand. And then thinking critically, part five, and this is problem solving. So problem solving is one of my favorite things to do. And one thing that I love using to do this is the five whys. And the five whys is a problem solving framework that's extremely simple and effective. And you start by clearly identifying the problem statement, and then you ask why five times or more until you identify the root cause. And you keep asking why until it can't go any further. And I've put in here, note, I use this a lot on our Q&A calls. So as I run you through all of these different things, you'll start to see, oh, yeah, I've seen Sam use this lots. So here's an example. The first thing I'm trying to figure out is, what's the problem? And so someone might be talking to me a lot like on a Q&A call, and I might say, what's the question? What's the question? Because questions arise from problems, right? So if someone's speaking at me and they're trying to tell me something, and I can't hear a question, all I can hear is story and a massive fire hose of information, then I'm going to be like, what's the question? What's the question? This is a basic way to get the problem statement. And then the problem statement could be, "Oh, Sam, I'm having trouble with my car." And I'm like, why? "Well, the car will not start." Then I'd ne like, why? And they'll be like, "Well, I think the battery is dead." I'm like, why? "I think the alternator isn't running." Why? "Well, it's because the alternator belt is broken. You know, it snapped and it's sitting underneath my car, and it says alternator on it. So, yeah, I guess that's why." I'm like, why? And, "The alternator belt was well beyond its useful service life and not replaced. A year ago, the mechanic told me 'Hey, you should get a new alternator belt.' And I was like, oh, nah. I'll just wait and see what happens. Oh, yeah, that's right. That's probably why it snapped and now sitting under my car. That's why my car won't work." Right? So as you just go, why, why, why, why, why, this person's starting to actually solve their own problem right in front of you, and all you're having to do is just say, why? Because they didn't even think down these dips. They just came to you with, "Oh, Sam, I got a problem." And I'm like, what is that? What is the problem? "My car won't start." And they haven't even thought why, and then they haven't even thought why the rest of these times? And quite often by just pushing why down ... Well, quite often just by having somebody define their question, they will already solve their question, because if you want to know the answer to a question, you first of all have to know how to ask it. So you can't get anything without a question. So it starts with the question. If someone comes to me and they don't have a question, I will force them to form a question. And then from that question, I will get the problem statement. And then I will start drilling down into it through why, why, why, why, why, why. Then we might come down to the vehicle was not maintained according to the recommended service schedule. And then I might be like, "All right, well, then you should get the alternator belt replaced. And then in the future, you should maintain it according to the recommended service schedule." All right? That's pretty much as simple as it is. But this is a really great problem solving framework to use. What's the question, identify the problem, and then start asking why and go down layers. So this is a layer one answer, my vehicle won't start. That's what I call a layer one. A layer two would be the battery is dead. A layer three would be the alternator, layer four, and then later five, right? And as you go down the layers, you get into the better stuff. So if you ever hear me on a Q&A call, I'll quite often ... someone will ask me a question, and then I'll ask why they even want to know the answer to this question. And then I find out that they want something here, and I'll ask why they want that. And then what I discover here on this fourth or third layer, actually shows me that they shouldn't even be asking the question they're asking, and instead, they should be asking this. And to that, my answer is this. And then they're like, "Oh, man, thanks so much," right? Because I'm not even answering the damn question they come to me with. Most of the time, I do not answer the question the person comes to me with. I ask why they're even asking it, and then why they're even caring about that. And then I tell them, well, you shouldn't even care about that. Therefore, that question shouldn't even be asked, and you should just keep working, do more of what you're doing, right? This is the power of these simple frameworks. This is what I'm talking about when I say like a unified field theory, like a lacing together of all of these different comprehension mechanisms, and models, and frameworks, and paradigms. It forms how you approach and interact with reality so that you can see clearly, perceive what's going on, and interact. You're trying to get it the root cause. Masters ask the questions that have never been asked. Unusual questions uncover unusual answers. So you want to question the unquestioned. Do you want to go in and question ... You want to go into the dark areas and question the things no one else has questioned. That's where you'll find the gold. Now, I've run you through this first one, critical thinking here, weapon number one, and I showed you five steps to it. Step one is to understand the object, step two, examine the argument, step three, discount the biases, step four, drill with questions, and then step five, problem solve, all right? So I've included a cheat sheet for download beneath this video called, one, critical thinking. And this is a simple PDF that you can download. Basically, it says what critical thinking is and it gives some examples. And then I run you through the parts, so part one, part two, part three, part four, part five. So you can have this framework as a resource after you've watched this video. Because critical thinking is one of the best tools that I have in my tool belt when it comes to business, and you should build it into your tool belt, too Now let's talk about weapon number two, which is first principles thinking. So first principles thinking is a scientific method of boiling process down to the fundamental parts that you know are true, and then building up from there. And a first principle is a basic assumption that cannot be deduced any further. So, basically what I did with business, in a consulting business, is I kept deducing it, I kept taking it down, down, down, down, down, down, down, down, down, down, down, until I couldn't take ... Down, down, down, down, down, down, down, down, down and out. So, I couldn't take it down any further. And what I arrived at, at the absolute base of this thing, was the niche. Who? Who are the people that we even care about, right? That was the first layer I could find. Because until we identify a group of people, we can't identify their problem. And until we identify the group of people and their problem, we can't possibly identify what we should sell to them as a solution. And how they might infer that brings value to them. And how we might infer that by providing this solution to their problem, that the exchange might bring us back money. When I boil this thing down to its first principals, I could deduce it no further than the niche. That's why I started the niche. From there, stems the problem. From there, stems the solution. What is this solution for? Well, it solves the problem. How does it solve the problem? It removes the problem. It alleviates it. Well, how do we know it's a problem? Because they told us. Who is they? The niche. What's the niche? Well, you tell me. You're the one who chose the niche. Right. You see how this works? It's just ... Once I boiled it down to its first principal, it was quite simple. Now, let me give you an example so I could submit this further. Example number one. So imagine that you have three things. A motorboat with a skier behind it, a military tank and a bicycle. What have you got? Think about it for a second, what have you got there? Well most people would say, the three things identified above. They would say, well what do you mean, what have we got? You told me that we have a motorboat, a skier behind it, a military tank and a bicycle. So what we have is a motorboat with a skier behind it, a military tank and a bicycle. What the hell else have we got? That's what you told me. And that's normal thinking. Right? There's not necessarily anything wrong with it. You might call it a sane individual. But here's an example using first principle. It was example number two. So using first principles, somebody might answer, well we've got a snowmobile. And you might be like, what the hell? If somebody tells you that we've got a motorboat with a skier behind it, a military tank and a bicycle and then you ask them, what have we got? And they tell you a snowmobile. You might think that person's crazy and out of their mind. And people actually think that people are mad, when they respond like that. But using first principles, let's break those three items down into their constituent parts. So what have we got with the motorboat? Well we've got the motor, the outboard motor. We've got the hull of the boat, we've got the pair of skis and we've got the human riding those pair of skis. We've got a few more parts, too, but these are the main things. Then what have we got with the tank? Well we've got metal treads, we've got some armor plates and a gun. And then what have we got with the bicycle? We've got some handlebars, some wheels, some gears and a seat. Now, how do we have a snowmobile? Well, if we break it down into its constituent parts and then reassemble the constituent parts, a snowmobile could be the handlebars and the seat from the bike. The metal treads from the tank and the motor and the skis from the boat. Right? And you might think that's kind of far fetched but this is what I'm talking about. This is first principle's thinking. It allows you to get different answers than the average person and think differently than the average person. Because instead of assessing what we have and what's possible with the current form of the things. We break the things down into their parts and then look at how all the possible configurations that could come of those parts. And see all the possibilities. So it reveals to us more possibilities than what it does if we analyze normally. And that's the beauty of first principles. And you want to deconstruct and then reconstruct. And this is the process of first principles thinking, in a nutshell. It's a cycle of breaking a situation down into the core pieces and then putting them all back together in a more effective way. And here's an example to show you how first principle's thinking works from Elon Musk. And I want to show you this video right now. And then I think it's also important to reason from first principles rather than by analogy. So the normal way that we conduct our lives is we reason by analogy. We're doing this because it's like something else that was done or it's like what other people are doing. Me too type ideas. Yeah, it's like [crosstalk 01:07:14]. Slight iterations on a theme. And it's ... It's kind of mentally easier to reason by analogy rather than from first principles. But first principles is kind of a physics way of looking at the world. And that really means is, you kind of boil things down to the most fundamental truths and say, "Okay, what are we sure is true or sure is possible is true." And then reason up from there. That takes a lot more mental energy. Give me an example of that. What's one thing that you've done that on, that you feel has worked for you? Sure. So somebody could say, in fact people do. That battery packs are really expensive and that's just the way they'll always be. Because that's the way they've been in the past. Well, no that's pretty dumb. Because if you applied that reasoning to anything new, then you wouldn't be able to get to that new thing. Right. So like you can't say, "Oh, horses ... Nobody wants a car because horses are great and we're used to them and they can eat grass. There's lots of grass all over the place and there's no gasoline that people can buy. So people are never going to get cars." People did say that and for batteries, they would say, "Oh it's going to cost, historically it's cost $600 per kilowatt hour and so it's not going to be much better in the future." And you can say, no okay, what are the batteries made of? So first principle is to say, okay. What are the material constituents of the batteries? What is the spot market value of the material constituents? So you can say it's got cobalt, nickel, aluminum, carbon and some polymers for separation and a steel can. So break that down on a material basis and say, okay, if we bought that at London Metal Exchange, what would each of those things cost? Like, oh, geez. It's like $80 per kilowatt hour. So clearly, you just need to think of clever ways to take those materials and combine them into the shape of a battery cell and you can batteries that are much cheaper than anyone realizes. All right. So that was that video. And you can see, Elon really breaks down the ... People see it, that electric cars won't work because batteries aren't good enough. And also, batteries are too expensive. And so that's when somebody is reasoning by analogy, because that's just what the common saying is out in the world. People are just repeating this thing, so this must be the truth. And it's not going to change because facts are forever, right. That's the dumb way. Instead Elon approached it with first principles and he was like, "Well what's a battery?" Well inside a battery, we've got cobalt, nickel, aluminum. We got all these different things and it's held together in a particular way. Well how much will it cost us to buy these different parts? Well if we bought it from the London Metal Exchange, it would cost this much for the nickel, this much for the cobalt. Okay, well just to buy the raw materials for the battery, we could do it really cheap. So now we just need to think of a great way to take those raw materials and form them into a battery. And then, that's first principles thinking. And I see this happen quite often. People are like, "Well you shouldn't buy a course from somebody. You shouldn't buy a course because all the information that's in the course is out there in world and on the internet for free." And of course it is. Everybody in the world actually knows off by heart, the alphabet. A, B, C, D, E, F, G. Everyone knows the alphabet. And the alphabet constructs every single word in the English language, right. And then every single word in the English language constructs every piece of information possibly produced in the history of the world. So of course, someone has access to that. If they know the alphabet, then they've got all the words and if they've got all the words, they've got all that. But it's not about that, it's about how it's configured together and sequenced and constructed and ordered and how it's all pulled together into something that makes it valuable. I mean, somebody could ... Why does someone buy an iPhone? What's an iPhone got in it, it's got glass, which is made of sand. It's got battery in it, which has got cobalt, nickel and aluminum and all of that. And it's got like a silicone chip. We could find all these different raw materials. We could dig them out of the ground. We could go and grab a shovel and we could go out into the mountains and we could just start chipping into the dirt and we could grab ourselves the materials for an iPhone. But to actually assemble those materials into the shape of a functioning iPhone? That's another thing. Right. And that's what first principles is all about. It's about breaking a thing down into it's absolute core components. Now everything physical is obviously going to come down to atoms and particles, right. And every piece of information is going to be broken down into bits. And atoms and bits are very similar. One is a construction of something ... Information is all about building blocks of bits and what the word around us is all about building blocks of atoms. And we're just putting them together in different ways to form these different things. At it's core, it's always built out of these different things. That's why when I talk about taking your done for you business from done for you 101 to an online course, I talk about all we're trying to do is simulate atoms with bits. You heard me say that, literally. Simulate atoms with bits. Simulate what happens 101 but do it through training, through the use of bits. So this is first principles thinking, that I use to apply these things. You're probably starting to notice all of these patterns and occurrences that you've experienced throughout the training and on the Q and A's just by me explaining this now. Now you know how I think about this different stuff. And so when we're reasoning, we can either reason by analogy or by first principles. Analogy is what everyone's just saying. So electric cars won't ever work because batteries are expensive. And then a critical person would say, well why. And they would start, they would start digging real deep there. And in there they would find that the person at the end of the why's, was just like, because that's just the way they are, right, now leave me alone. Or, look you're an idiot. That's the way they are and that's a fact. There's a scientific fact. Batteries are expensive, they've always been expensive and they will continue to always be expensive because that's a fact. Now leave me alone. All right. That's what someone would say when you drill them. And then with first principles, we would look at it and go, "Will purchasing individual battery materials from cost efficient sources allows us to make batteries that are much cheaper than anyone else." Realizes, we just got to come up with a good way of putting together the core components. So that's first principles. And here's another one. Here's an analogy. Those that can't do, teach. Therefore, if one is teaching, one must not know how to do. So people don't express it this clearly. They actually just say, those that can't do, teach. And then they think they're smart, because they can just spout off a little thing like that. But when I heard this, I unpacked it. I critically examined it. And really what these people are doing in their brain is they remember this little snippet. So they go, those that can't do, teach. Oh, it kind of rhymes. Therefore, if one is teaching, all right, is that guy teaching? Yes. Then, because those that can't do, teach and he is teaching, therefore, he must not know how to do. So you can't do and you can't teach me how to do. You see, this is how they've tied a knot in their mind. However, with first principles thinking, we'd look at it and we'd say, well if one is proven to do and to do well, because we can actually see them doing and the results they're getting is the output from their input of doing, is good. Then they know how to do. And if they know how to do, they will be able to teach how they do it, just by example. Right, this is why ... I do agree that most people who are teaching, most people who are teaching can't do. I learned this lesson when I went to university and my lecturer, who had a Ph.D. in entrepreneurship and was the head of entrepreneurship. He had started one business that failed and he hadn't started again. But he was a Ph.D. in entrepreneurship. So I was like, this little saying does have a lot of merit to it. The education industry is in a bad spot. But it doesn't mean that everyone who teaches can't do, because it's mindless. If one can do, then even if they think they don't know how to teach, they will be able to show others how to do, just by showing people how they do it. And then just by others observing that, then they will know how to do it, too. And the byproduct is this person's a really good accidental teacher. Another one might be ... An analogy might be, businesses are not successful unless they post often on social media and have lots of likes. A lot of idiots think this. They think, "Oh I wouldn't listen to business on anything, because they've only got this many likes." Or, "Why should I listen to you about business, because you've only got this many likes." These people need a massive slap in the face. Because it's just mindless. But if we're assessing it with first principles, when a business is successful. Well, businesses are successful when they add value to their customers. That's the main function of a business. And the byproduct of adding value to their customers, is that they make money. And when they do both of these things, a business is successful. Regardless, it's totally an isolation and it has no correlation or correspondence at all to whether someone posts on social media or has lots of likes. So you can see how these two different thinking styles can help you. Now I have included a resource beneath this video, and the resource is section and it's called number two, first principles thinking. It's a PDF, available for download and it says how to use first principles thinking. Gives you what it is, the examples and also the Tesla battery example. So you can download that and keep it handy. And now let's cover our third weapon. The scientific method. So scientific method is process of systematic observation, measurement and experiment. And the formulation testing and modification of hypothesis. And the scientific method has created everything that we know, as science, since the 17th century. And so science and scientists is built off of scientific method. A simple process. And experimentation is everything. And the ultimate test of something is a scientific experiment. And if somebody tells you that X doesn't work and through experimentation, you find that that X does work. Then what does X do? Does X not work, because you've seen it work but you just believe the other person that it doesn't work? Or does X work because it bloody works and somebody just told you that it doesn't work, right. Obviously, X does work. A lot of people, they say all webinars are dead. And they might be credible resources that are saying webinars are dead. But if I have a webinar that isn't dead and it hasn't been dead for a long time and it's making a lot of money and it's actually thriving and it's actually getting better. And I know a ton of other people who are in the same boat. Then webinars work. Because the ultimate is an experiment. And so that's why, quite a lot of the time, if I'm on a Q and A call and I answer someone, I'll say, "Look, here's ... I'm very cautious to even give you an answer to this one, because I don't know. If you're asking what I think, I'm slightly leaning that side, based on previous information I've got in my mind. But the only way you're actually going to know for sure is to do an experiment." Right. So that's the ultimate. Nothing's ever really proven until it's done in experiment. Experimentation is the only way, really, to find out whether stuff works. And that's why I say, you can't create a course until you've done, done for you 101 and you've established a proof of concept. Because that is an experiment. And if you've done an experiment and you have five clients that's also why I get you to do it with more than one. Because an experiment isn't an experiment if it happens once. The key of an experiment is that it has to be repeated multiple times with the same outcome. That's why forms an experiment. And so that's why, with your proof of concept, the parameter's I've described, they are helping someone in your niche, solve a problem with your same method of application more like, five times. And if that is true, then you have a proof of concept. We have a good experiment. We know the variables to apply to the problem and the outcome of applying those variables to that problem will be a preferred solution that adds value. And so the experimentation is working there. And now all we're trying to do is take that situation that happened in reality in atoms, and simulate it in bits through a training program. Right. So you can see how I formed all that in my mind. I'm using critical analysis, first principles and I'm also using scientific method. I'm kind of interlacing all of these three things and I'm kind of putting them all over each other and that's how I'm able to do these things. And scientific method is my preferred tool. And I use critical analysis to quickly unpack and decipher information and then I boil it down to it's first principles as a thought experiment. I then cross reference it to it's nearest neighbor, in my mind, to see if I've observed this pattern before. And from here, I view it through dozens of relevant frameworks and then form a hypothesis and a confidence score that relates to that hypothesis. And from here, the only way to really know is by experimentation. All right? So this is kind of my process that I do in my mind. Just automatically, very fast, without writing anything down or anything. So let me run you through it. So first of all, critical analysis. Somebody has come to me with something. Let's say it's a question on a Q and A call. Well, I critically analyze this thing. I try to strip out the biases, I try to identify the objects, identify the relationships between the objects and the interconnections. The time sequence of events and I try to see it as a map, first and foremost. And then, once I see it as a map, I see if I can simplify that map. So can I take this map and boil it down to its first principles? Because I can see this map as it exists at this high level but can I boil it down to it's parts and see how it's parts can be reassembled to create a new map with the same parts. So this is what I'm doing. Critically analyzing it, boiling it down to objects and relationships and time sequences. Then into first principles and seeing if I can re-map in different ways. And then when I've done that, I'm cross referencing it to it's nearest neighbor in my mind. Now a nearest neighbor is an algorithm that basically is trying to find the closest thing to this, that you have stored in your mind. So it's not even on any ... It's not on any defined variable. So if I'm trying to look at a problem and try and find it's nearest neighbor, I'm not looking in the category of the niche. I'm not looking in the category of the person, I'm not looking in any of those things. I'm just looking for a pattern, a map pattern, with objects and relationships between objects. That looks most similar to this. So this is key. This will blow your mind, when you figure out how to do this. So if somebody comes to you and they've got a complex thing that they're trying to tell you, you have to boil it down and turn it into the object relationship map. And remember, an object relationship map ... It's just going to look basically like ... What's an example? I'll just show you really quickly. So someone comes to you and they're ... They say, "Oh, I'm worrying about this, I'm worrying about this bill in my house, in my car, in my dog, in my ..." And I was listening to Gary V. and he said, "This and then my social media and then also my likes and then my iPod broke and then I'm also worried about this. And then I'm thinking, should I do that, and should I use word," and so this person is just going nuts. And then I'm like, all right dude, what's the problem? And they're, "Oh okay, the problem ... Um ... The problem ... Um ... Well the problem, I think I just need some clients." I'm like, all right, well why don't you have any? All right and they're like, "Well, I just don't know what to do." And I'm like, why don't you know what to do? They're like, "I don't know." I'm like, well do you have any clients? "No." Well, have you tried to get any clients? "No." All right, well, what's your niche? "I don't really have one." And I'm like, okay. This is actually what happens. So then very quickly, I take something very noisy and I'm boiling it down to niche. Quite often, this thing's absent so first of all, we have to get that defined. Then from the niche comes the problem and then from the problem comes the solution. Right. And so this might have looked like something very complicated but now it's very simple. And now I'm trying to spot the interconnections between these different things. So if I grab one of these lines here ... I'm trying to spot how these go together. This one comes first and it's ... It flows in this direction. And so once I spot the thing that looks like this, then I just see it like that. Got it? That's critical analysis and boiling it down to it's objects. And then what I'm doing is I'm looking at the first principles. So if the guy tells me that he really knows how to solve this problem and he's kind of interested in this. Well then I'm looking at all these different things and then I might boil it down to it's first principles and then, what I'm doing is I'm looking, I'm cross referencing it to find it's nearest neighbor in my mind. To see if I've observed this pattern before. So I'm running through lots of things in my mind, to see if there's a ... Something I've seen in the past that looks similar to this. So let's say someone is interested in doing, in some niche to do with addiction or addiction recovery. Well then I can instantly start finding the nearest neighbor with Hunter and the different people that have done video game and porn addiction and addiction to different types of foods. And all sorts of things. And then I can look to see if this pattern is similar to that and so I'm quickly trying to run that pattern recognition process and then from there, I'm running it through dozens of relevant frameworks. So I'm seeing, is this ... If we're going to focus on this niche, what is the need of the person? What's their need? I'm looking from the person's viewpoint. Not their viewpoint, I've dropped down a level and I'm looking at their prospective clients view. And how they're going to see things. And then I might have to drop down to their prospective clients, prospective client's view. And I have to start looking up from there and down from the top. Down through these things and once I've run through all of these different frameworks, then I can form a hypothesis about what the person should do. So the person, in this case, should pick their niche. Out of the three niches they've told me. This one sounds like the one they should pursue, purely because they have the most interest in it. And I know that interest creates skill, which creates commitment, which creates action, which creates results. So that's why I formed that niche, is what I suggested. And my confidence score of that niche over that niche ... Probably about a 90% whereas the others are sitting at 30. All right? But that does not mean I know the answer, all right? That's just what I might do in my mind quickly to give that person that response. But I will tell them, and you'll hear me say this all the time. The only way to know is by actually testing it. You got to go to the market ... I can tell you this message looks kind of good to me. But the only person's opinion that matters is the market's. So you've got to go out and experiment. So that's kind of a quick overview of how I'll quickly analyze something, just by flicking between these different things. And this happens ... It's not even a conscious process. This happens to fast and it just kind of automatic, really quick. Just through practice and from learning lots of different things. And to see how scientific method goes, here's how we do it. Here's scientific method, boiled down into it's objects and relationships. So it really can start at any point here. Because it's a circular one, this one. All right the time sequencing of things. You don't really need ... You can start this process at any point, all right? Because it's a circle. But where we would typically start is making observations. So if we're trying to start a business and we're thinking, "Well how do we start a business, well we need a niche." Then we should try to make observations about what we're interested in. So we look at our favorite movie, we look at what our friends do. We look at what videos we watch on YouTube. We're sort of forming observations. By looking at what we see in nature. And this can be from one's own experiences, thoughts or reading. That's how we might start. From observations, we start thinking of interesting questions. Like why does that pattern occur? Or we might think, well, why am I so interested in that? Oh maybe that's what I should choose as my niche. Okay, well let's choose that as my niche and then you might go and then formulate hypothesis. So what are the general causes of the phenomemon I'm wondering about? So we might look at this niche and then we might think, well if I want to help this niche and create a business in it, then I need to find what problem they have. So now I'm going back and I'm looking at observations for the niche this time. Because first of all, I was kind of running scientific method on myself- ... devotions for the niche this time. Because first of all I was kinda running scientific method on myself, now I'm running scientific method on the niche. What observations can I tell about their lives and what's going on with them? What are their problems? All right, there seems to be a pattern. Why is this problem occurring between lots of people in this niche? Then I might formulate a hypothesis. Well, I think this is a problem for the people in this niche because of this and they're telling me this and I also think it's because of this, right? And I think the solution to this problem is this based on this. Now, at this point, we've found out a few things. We have a hypothesis about something which we're interested in and may want to start a business in. We also have a hypothesis about a problem that these people have and about a solution that we believe might solve that problem, and do it in a way that still is interesting to us and does it in a way that actually forms a business that adds value to the niche and creates a byproduct of money for us. So it's a lot of hypotheses, but they're formed well. But from that point, the only thing we can do is test. And so we have to develop testable predictions. So if my whole hypothesis is correct, then I expect ABC. So we think all right, well, if my hypothesis is correct and I think that this solution, if this problem really is painful for this niche, and if this solution they believe could work for their problem, and if I'm interested enough in this too, then I should expect to at least get about three clients by doing organic outreach before building my product. That's what we do in week two of this program. You can see exactly how we've done this, right? You just go look at how I've laid out this training program. Do not build your product until you've got three clients because all it is right there is a hypothesis. You think this is the problem, you think this is the solution and you think the combination of the solution to the problem is going to be perceived as value and create money. That's a hypothesis, it's not a fact. So we have to test it and the way to test it is to get a client before building the product because if we have to change and iterate here, then the solution which we're going to be selling to them is different. And then we build their whole solution and it's a waste. So then we gather data to test predictions. So relevant data can come from the literature and your observations or forming experiments through testing. Thorough testing requires replication to verify results. So, we then do a test. We go out and we start doing direct outreach, we start doing 15 minute chats, we start generating strategy sessions. And then we do the strategy sessions. And then we take them through the process and we try to sell them. And they either buy or they don't buy. And we record the data and we try to extract information. And from this comes refining, altering, expanding or rejecting hypothesis. This is iterating, this is iteration and how we iterate. So as we start to get info from 15 minute chats, direct outreach and strategy sessions, we might actually change what we think was the problem and we might change what we think is the solution and how we communicate it. And then we come back and we test it again by trying to get a client. And then we might go around in this loop here like dah, dah, dah, dah, dah, testing and iterating until it click. It clicks into place and boom, boom, boom, we get some sales. All right, now I've got this thing lined up. Then from making these sales, we can make a general theory. So our general theory might be that, hey, if I got five sales organically doing this, then I should build a product on this because people obviously care about this problem and solving this problem and they obviously believe that I can help them solve this problem because they gave me money. Therefore, I should build the product. And so then you build a product and then you give it to them. And then when you give it to them and take them through it, then you make more observations. You're like, how are they using the product? Are they getting results? Where are they getting stuck? The people who are succeeding, what are they doing and how does that differ from the people who aren't succeeding? How can I make the people who aren't succeeding succeed by doing more of the actions that the people who succeed do compared to the ones who don't? And around we go again, and then around we go and then we built a version one. Then we start selling more. Then we build a VSL funnel and then when you start running Facebook ads to it. Start spiraling up. Then we start scaling our Facebook ads and then we need to get more sales reps and then we need to go to the JIT funnel, and then we need more ads and then we go, we're still scaling up. Now we need to build a new version of our course. Now we need to make some hires. Now we need to do these different things. Now we might build a mastermind. Now we might build a 2k, and all this time, we're just applying scientific method. That's all that it is, man. Like, a lot of the time I swear people think that we're applying complex NASA space science and liquid propulsion systems, like theory to these things but it's just this. It's quite simple. Scientific method I use all the time. I use this thing relentlessly. You can probably see it throughout all of my trainings. When I teach Facebook ads, I call it an audience hypothesis and an ad hypothesis because we haven't tested these things yet. And then we test multiple combinations and we run experiments. And then we find different combinations that work and then we iterate and we do the same thing with our sales script. And we do the same thing with our course and we do the same thing with everything. We just apply the same thing again and again and again. So, I've included for download beneath this video in the resources section, weapon number three, scientific method. It's a simple pdf and it explains what it is, why it's my preferred tool in the quick process I run through, and also a diagram that you can use to follow this process. If ever you get stuck or if ever you want to figure your way out of anything, this thing helps you. This thing is how people go to the moon and back. This thing is how people have invented everything. It's very powerful. Now let's talk about weapon number four, which is a strange latticework. So far, we have shown you the importance of idiosyncratic thinking and how to form your own unified field theory by lacing together different mental models like critical thinking. The first principles, method and scientific method. Now, a strange latticework. What is it? Well, this is your own unique collection of interconnected mental models. And so far I've shown you three major pillars of my own one. But now you must form your own by adding mental models you see value in. And this is a lifetime process. So you don't take a few days to complete your unified field theory and then go out and apply it. That's not how it works. You start by becoming aware of how you currently conceptualize the world, and this module should have shown you that. You as you are now, you have a unified field theory. You're just not really aware of it or you hadn't given it that label. You hadn't ever thought about it. And so, just by being aware of it, that's a massive leap and a massive advantage over most people. Most people don't even know they have it and if they do it, they're not aware of it. So you can start to critique and analyze and think of what your unified field theory is. Then you can start to critique your mental models. So you might think, oh, I apply this thing a lot but it's actually very confusing and harmful. So I'm going to remove this, I'm going to flush this out. I'm going to remove this thing. I always have a tainted view because of this thing, get rid of that, get rid of that, get rid of that. And to give you an example, I learned a lot of things at school. My parents taught me a lot of stuff. Also, my university taught me a lot of stuff. And then I worked at a corporate job and they taught me a lot of stuff. And I had to throw away all of those things because they were not good for how I perceive the world. So you know, your parents might tell you things like, you know, money is real scarce and that rich people are evil and money's hard to get and all of this stuff, right? And that you should always be cautious and always be afraid, all of this crap. That shouldn't come in and form your unified field theory because it's not useful. And then you might have all of this other stuff that's coming in from your childhood or working at a corporate job is really, really, really cancerous because how they view things is so distorted. So you can start analyzing your current unified field theory and critiquing it, removing pieces. And then once you've done that, you can start to add new mental models and new perceptions into it. You can start to add it and grow it. And then whenever you add a new piece in, you want to reconcile that new piece against everything that's currently in there. So if you're heading in this new way of perceiving the world, then you want to think how does that interact with all of this other stuff. It's just like integrating a software. It's like integrating ClickFunnels with Infusionsoft, right? You've got to understand how does ClickFunnels affect Infusionsoft, how does Infusionsoft affect ClickFunnels at a component view, and at a whole view, how does this affect the customer? How does it affect their experience and how does it affect our accounting? Like is this more of an expense or what? How does it affect our salespeople? How does it affect our support people? How does it affect all of these things? So you're analyzing the different parts, the interconnections between the parts and holistically what's happening for the customer at the whole, what's happening for you at the whole and the different departments within your business at the whole when these two interconnected parts come together, right? That's kind of how you're thinking about it. And so you want to be careful, you don't just randomly throw stuff together. You don't just go and get ClickFunnels and then integrate it with this and then integrate it with that. And then just start just mass integrating millions of things together. Honestly, if you do that, just go do it for fun if you want and watch how quickly it blows up. You don't do that. That's why also I'm very disciplined about how many funnels we have. You just start with one because you don't know what's going to happen. If you start adding all these things together, they all interconnect and they all affect each other in ways you cannot possibly predict. You have to do it in a controlled way because it can get complicated. I'm not saying you can't have more than one, you can, but you've just got to reconcile them and integrate them whenever you add a new one to the stack. And then you should also seek to improve your unified field theory forever. It's not something you just do and you're done with. You keep building it for life. And you might be thinking, well Sam, this is great. You've shown me that I need to have idiosyncratic thinking. I get that because normal gets normal, abnormal gets abnormal. What I want is abnormal therefore, I must think abnormally. And to think abnormally, I should have a unified field theory that's more developed than the average individual's. And how I do that is I should build upon some major pillars of critical thinking, first principles thinking and also a scientific method. I get that. And now you're saying that I should add all of these other things on top to make a strange latticework and I get that. But what are some examples of some different things I could look at and add on and things like that? Well, first of all, you can add on whatever the hell you want. I don't actually know what the best things are to add on. I just gave you things that I think should be the major pillars of your unified field theory. But if you want some tips, I've thrown together here some components of my strange latticework that forms my unified field theory. You can look into these different things if you want. Now the ones on the lift that are blue are the major things I use. So first of all, the major, major ones I use to analyze things is critical thinking, problem solving, and first principles and scientific method. Those are the major things I use all the time. Those are like the tools I use relentlessly, every day, all the time. I taught you those. I also do a lot of visual object mapping. If someone's explaining something to me, I'm just trying to identify the objects and relationships and I'm using my mind's eye to do this. And your mind's eye is, this is fascinating to learn about, your mind's eye is you can actually see things by thinking about them in your brain. We think that we can only see things that are in front of us like a computer screen or whatever, but we can actually see things that without using our eyes. And when someone gets very advanced in thinking, their brain will actually dominate their visualization area of their brain and it will kind of knock off your vision. And so what happens to me a lot is I stare at things, right? You might've noticed this. I just stare intensely things, and it's honestly because I'm not even looking at the person. Like my brain is just, it's just shut off my eyes pretty much and I'm just, whatever they're telling me, I'm visualizing as objects. So I'm like, okay, you're talking about this and then we're talking about this thing over here, and then these things are connected like this and there's also this thing over there that looks like this. And my eyes might just be staring straight at the person like, what the hell is that guy looking at? I'm looking at something in my brain. I'm not looking with my eyes. I do this all the time. And also you might see my eyes go from left to right as I talk about different concepts. It's because I've mapped them, that one's there, that one's over there and these connect through there. And so you can kind of see what I'm doing there. This like wasn't trained but it's just what's kind of happened. I don't really know how, but it's really powerful and you should honestly work on this. When you can see things with your mind's eye, you have a huge advantage because most other people are just looking at the world and they can only see what they can see. But I see things that others can't see because I'm looking with my brain, not my eyes. I knock my visual sensing off just so I can use that department for visualization. And then I also do a lot of pattern recognition. So I try to understand it as an object in a map in my mind's eye. And then I'm trying to pattern match that to the nearest neighbor. Nearest neighbor is an algorithm that basically just looks for something that is similar to this. So if I see, if I see something that has a loop and feedback in it, so let's say I see one object over here, another object over here, and then there's present, there's a feedback mechanism where the output of this comes back round and influences the input. If I see that, if I see that that exists, then instantly I think of systems. I quickly go and relate it to all the systems that I've observed. You can probably tell we talk about systems a lot. If you think back to how do we create a good course, we think about systems. How do we create a good Facebook campaign? Well, we understand the algorithm. The algorithm's a system. What are the inputs, what are the outputs, what's the feedback? I map all sorts of things as systems. Even in one of the previous mindset modules which was about [inaudible 01:50:52] discipline, I showed you myself as a system and all of those things, right? So that's, I'm running these same things. I'm running visual object mapping in my mind's eye, I'm pattern recognizing it to look for the nearest neighbor based not on how it is seen with pixels or atoms based on its nearest neighbor on an object mapping view. Then I am comparing it to nature all of the time. I think, all right, well how does nature take care of this? Because nature is a very complicated system and in my view, it's the best system in the world. So, I'm trying to run a pattern recognition nearest neighbor thing to compare an object map to an object map of nature and I'm trying to see where does this fit into the nature system and how does nature deal with it because nature knows how to deal with lots of stuff. If I can key in this object into the map of nature and I can see how nature's handled it, that can be a good way to handle it. So comparing stuff to nature I do constantly. You've probably heard me make references throughout the training to this. And then I think of systems all the time. In systems theory, I explained it to you. Systems thinking, I explained it to you. Earlier in uplevel when creating a good course, so, creating version one, I talked about systems theory in detail. And then bayesian trees and probability. So a bayesian tree is basically like, let me show you, I'll just google it quickly. It's basically a, there it is. It basically shows you like how things evolve down a tree or a hierarchy. So if I show you kind of like this, you can see that it's looking at how things evolve and stem from other things. And what it's basically doing, it's extremely like, it can get extremely complicated how it's used but I'm just explaining it at its first principles and at its very simple method. So, it's showing how things evolve and how things branch off other things as it goes down. Then it's using the probabilities from the inherited branches before it to predict how the future branches may evolve. So it's basically using our previous evolving decisions to predict future evolving decisions. And so, we use this quite a lot when I'm explaining how Facebook ads work. I even break down this tree, I talk about how at the top you've got your ad account and then within an ad account you've got a fan page and this. And then within a fan page you've got this and this and these things should be good at these things should be good. And also how, if we take a good campaign, if a campaign has momentum, then an set within a campaign with momentum has an advantage because it inherits some of that from that. And so, I use this quite a lot in my [inaudible 01:54:15] This is a really good one for understanding how evolution works and how history of how something has evolved can affect the future of how something is going to evolve. It's not perfect because things take weird turns, right? Bayesian trees is a really good way to form a prediction but it is not a very good way to form an absolute answer. Like I've told you a million times, experiments are the only way to have actual answers. 80-20 principle, use that a lot, power laws, use that a lot. Machine learning, I've studied that a lot. Understanding how algorithms learn and how the pixels learn and how machines learn has helped me understand how I can use that to learn better. I also talk about evolution constantly, like evolution of a consultant, all of those. That's from Darwin's theory of evolution, you should learn about that, it's awesome. I also know quite a lot about product development and what makes a good product and how do you go about building a good product. Psychology, constantly learning about the brain and why people are the way they are and behave and think and do what they do. Inversion. I love this tool. If I see something and it's one way I identify its poles. Its extreme pole on both sides, its negative and its positive. Without hot we wouldn't know what cold is, without cold, we wouldn't know what hot is. So I'm trying to find the opposite pole of the thing and then I'm inverting it. So flipping it upside down and seeing how it behaves when it's flipped. I use this constantly. So if someone's doing this, I will try and find the opposite of it and try that. Just to try it and see what happens and sometimes the opposite works way better than the current status quo. I also apply and think a lot about neuroscience. History. History is a great one. You know, I learn a lot from other people's mistakes, so a lot of the time I don't need to make mistakes because I've avoided them by observing other people's. So these blue ones I use a ton, like a lot. And then I use these gray ones still quite lot, like deductive and inductive logic, extreme scale testing. So if something works at a small scale, I want to know let's test it real big, or if something works at a big scale, I'm like, can we test it real small. So constantly using scale as a model. Divergent and convergent thinking. So, how can we just diverge this out into lots of possibilities and lots of possible futures. Or how can we collapse all of these possible futures into some specific possible futures. And then I also understand finance and financial markets. So I'm overlaying that. Hey, if we make this decision here, what does that do to this account, what does this do to assets, liabilities? What does it do to cash? What does it do to accounts receivable? What does it do to all of these different things? Accounting, tax and legal, statistics, biology, lean methodology, Newton's laws of motion. For every action, there's an equal and opposite reaction. Algorithms. I talk about these a lot. And also, in our, we'd already talked about this. I talk about the mast algorithm when we're trying to work on our mindset. I also talk about niche times offer equals result. I create these different or I help blank to blank by blank kind of equations that help people too. I also think a lot about engineering, problem solving in different ways to solve problems. Computer science and the storing and manipulation and restoring of information into a database and object oriented architecture and all of this. And in philosophy and different philosophers and their different views and how that's evolved over time. Marketing, I know a lot about this. And then all sub fragments of marketing like PVC, analytics, direct response, copywriting, all of that. Sales. I created the sales script and I had to do that too. And support. User experience. What makes a good user experience, how can we make it better. Market research, particle physics, Einstein's theory of relativity, corporate structures and Hegel's science of logic. This is just an example. Like there's lots of things I apply and I didn't go out and deliberately learn these things thinking I'm going to form [inaudible 01:58:51] a unified field theory. I didn't have that luxury of knowing that. I just learned these things by reading different things and was interested in these things. Then I tied them all together and I actually use these as a way to perceive reality and solve problems and interact with reality. The major ones I use the most are the ones I explained in detail and I gave you cheat sheets for them, which is the critical thinking, first principles thinking and scientific method. And then the strange latticework is also what I use which is tying together lots of things. And then also these blue ones are the ones I use most often. I use the blue ones a lot and I use these other ones too. I also use other ones which I haven't put in here, but these blue ones are the main ones. So if you want to learn those, you can learn them. If you don't, you don't have to. And you can learn whatever you want because your unified field theory is your own. And its uniqueness is what gives you your advantage. And just by being aware of your unified field theory, you will have an advantage. And adding critical thinking, first principles thinking and scientific method to it, that'll supercharge it. And everything else, you add to a strange latticework after that. That puts you in the top one percent of thinkers in the world. So, let's get to work. Let's start deciphering your current unified field theory. Let's start adding these new pieces to it and expanding on it and really improving it so that you can really make your dent in the world.