Hey Everyone, Sam Ovens here. And, welcome to this final module of week seven, mindset training in the Uplevel Program. And, this one is called Systemizing Life. And, in this video I'm going to show you show to finely tune and optimize and systemize your personal life and your business life, so that you can actually be as efficient as possible when it comes to achieving your goal. And, by efficient, I mean doing what works and doing as much of what works as humanly possible. And, completely eliminating waste, which is stuff that doesn't work and doesn't contribute value. And then, delegating things that we can't completely get rid of but they don't really add value. Because, what we really want to try and do is just relentlessly all day, every day, work on those power activities. The things that actually move the needle in our business and actually get results and actually add value. And, that's all we want to be doing, relentlessly. All day, every day, for forever. And, in order to do that, we have to get rid of all the other crap. Because, the reason why most people can't execute on the important stuff is because they've surrounded themselves with all this non-important stuff that gets in the way of doing the important stuff. And, in this video, I'm going to show you how to really systemize your life so that you can get 10, 20, even 30 X the performance that you're used to getting. Now, here's what we're going to cover. So, systemizing life, right? What does that mean? Well, we're going to explain it. And, really it's just architecting the way that you live and work. So, it's by design, you know, it's not by accident. And, then environment. So, where you live and where you work, you know, your space. And, your environment plays a crucial role and I'm going to show you how to design your environment for optimal performance and also install optimal defaults, so that you always default to the best possible behavior instead of defaulting to the worst behavior. And, then routines. So, I'm going to show you why winners have routines, and why routines are the most powerful things ever. And, I'm going to show you how to ingrain automatic excellence, so that excellence isn't an effort for you, it's automatic. And, then I'm going to show you how to delegate. And, by that I mean hiring people to hire type one waste. So, what is type one waste? Well, there's two types of waste, type one and type two, and I'm going to explain what those are and show you how you can delegate it off to other people. And, then standardizing. And, this is a secret weapon that pretty much no one is aware of. I'm going to show you what standardizing is how to create protocols of operation. And, then decisions. I'm going to show you how to make really good decisions, and maximize the half-life of your decisions. And then finally, we're going to tie it all together and bring it together and we're going to just talk about execution, and why you need to focus on your throughput and you need to track everything and optimize everything continuously forever. So, we're going to cover quite a lot of stuff today, so let's get into it. Systemizing life: architecting the way you live and work. So, most people live chaotically. And, everyday, they think, "What do I want?" And, they believe it's something different. And then they think, "Well, what should I do?" And, they believe it's something different. And so, if you don't know what you want, then you don't know what you should do because you don't know what you want. And so you're totally confused. And then, if you do know what you want, but it changes day to day, then you're not ever going to really know what you should do and it's going to chaos, right? And, the means which you're using to reach your end is chaos. And, the end in which you're trying to determine your means from is chaos. So, it's just total chaos. This is what most people do, and it's a recipe for nothing but a lot of pain. And, really, you need to define what you want. That's where it all starts. And, so far in the training, we have clearly defined your long-term vision, your mission, and your principles. And you'll notice that we actually did that first. We defined that first. There's a reason for that. And, now we need to define your baseline. Oh, sorry, we've already defined your baseline too. And, so far in the training we have defined your current baseline, both personally and financially. So, now you know what you want and now you know where you're at. Alright? So, you've got these two things measured and clear. And, then you want to hypothesize your means. And, by that I mean identify what you believe is the best means to achieve your end, and then plan to do it. So, you know what you want, you know where you are, and now you're supposed to look at, "Well, what's the best possible way to work towards what I want?". Alright? You do some research there. That's your hypothesis. And, then you put a plan in place to execute that. And, then you measure progress. And, you want to measure progress towards your vision and against your baseline. So, "How do I know if I'm improving?" Well, you're getting closer to your vision, mission, and goals. "Well, how do I know if I'm not improving?" Well, you're regressing back to baseline, or you're not progressing at all and you're kind of just stagnating. Alright? Very clear to understand. And, then you want to iterate your means, and you want to do more of what works, which is defined as progress towards vision, and less of what doesn't work, which is regression to baseline, alright? Simple. All measurable, all clear, all articulate, all defined. All you have to do is stay sane, remember it, and do it. And, in order to do that, we need to systemize things and we need to systemize winning at means. And, we need to identify what works and then systemize it so that it gets applied frequently and consistently. Because, we're humans and we might find something that works awesome but then we might forget. And, if we forget then we stop doing the thing that works awesome and then we're lost again trying to find something that works, and we forget that we never knew something did work. This is what happens, alright? So, that's why you need a system in place so you never forget what it is and you never forget to do it. And, it all comes back to systems thinking. And, I've talked about this concept endlessly throughout the Uplevel Program. And, it's all about inputs, processes, outputs and feedback, and the environment. And so, in this module, we're going to talk about improving your environment, improving your processes, the inputs, the feedback, the outputs. We're going to optimize the hell out of this whole thing. And, 94% of problems in life are systems-driven, and only 6% are people-driven. So, people don't really have the willpower or anything to do something consistently themselves. They're mostly driven by systems. Like, routines and habits are systems. Laws are systems. All of these things are systems. So, humans kind of habitualize to the system, alright? And so, it's too hard to just try and tell a human to do something by pure willpower and remember to do it all the time. No, there has to be a system in place that creates that. And, here's two quotes from J. Edwards Deming. And, he says, "A bad system will beat a good person every time." And, you know, that's very true. If you just have one person who pretty much doesn't know anything and sucks at everything, and all they do is one hour a day of reading. Alright? That's their system, "All I'm going to do is one hour a day of reading. I don't know anything." Then let's say you've got this smart person, and they already know a lot, but they don't do any reading or anything. That person with the system who doesn't know that much is going to overtake the person who is smart, very quickly. And, that's what this quote means, "A bad system will beat a good person every time." And, you know, if you're using a system in your business like a script or a funnel or paid traffic or things like this, those allow you to beat people who are highly skilled at just kind of doing anything, because we're just working a system. You know, we're like a cyborg, a man combined with a machine. And, those other people are just humans. And so, that is why we're able to get an advantage, because we leverage systems. And, "If you can't describe what you are doing as a process, you don't know what you're doing." And, this is very true too. A lot of people, they don't actually know why they do what they do, or how they do what they do, or whether there's any order to it. And, really what systems are all about is taking a process, no matter how complicated it is, and breaking it down to its constituent parts and then clearly defining the process and optimizing it so that it's as efficient as humanly possible. And, that' what we need to do with your life. We need to systemize your life. Now, I've included this quote as a download in the resources section beneath this video. It just says Systems Always Win Pin-up, and it's a good thing to download, print. I want you all to remember that systems are important. And, if you want to do something, you need to have a system to do it. And, if you want to do something consistently, it's a system. You want to change your life, it's a system. You want to do anything, it's going to be a system. So, just remember that. And, if we want to perform at a high level every day consistently for a long period of time, we need to systemize our life and business in order to achieve it. So, let's do it. Let's systemize it. And, here's what we're going to cover. And, here's how we're going to systemize high performance. So, if we want to perform at a high level every day consistently for a long period of time, we need to systemize our life and our business. And, high performance is a default habit. It's not a daily miracle effort. This is what people don't understand. They think that to have high performance and to succeed and do really well, it's just about these miracle efforts. It's not. It's just about just getting up and just chipping at it again, going back to sleep. Getting up, chipping at it again, going back to sleep. Just again, again, again, again. That's what makes miracles happen. Not miracle efforts, just miracle consistency over a long miracle period of time. That's what creates high performance. Now, in order to do that, we need to systemize things so that it just happens as a default habit. And, here's how we do it. We focus on these different areas. The environment, your routines, delegating, standardizing, decisions, and execution. So, let's jump into all of these, and drill into them and see exactly how to do them. So, your environment, designing for optimal defaults. So, every system operates within an environment, alright? No system operates in a vacuum, the environment is always present. And, if we consider ourselves as a system, which we are, you know, a human being. And, if we consider the work we do as a system, and if we consider our business as a system and all that as a system, then we are running all of this, all of these systems, within an environment. And, our business environment might be our home office or our actual office if you have one. And, your personal life is probably at your house, and your bedroom and where you sleep and all of that. That's your environment. And, now we're going to talk about how to optimize your environment, because it makes a difference. So, what makes a good environment? So, good environments support the systems objective and goal by providing access to things that are helpful, and by that I mean positives, and limiting access to things that are not helpful, negatives. And, they do this in a way that's predictable and consistent. Now, human behavior. So, most of human behavior is a byproduct of the immediate environment and what's easily available. And, humans make default choices which are usually the easiest or closest or most available options. An example. So, if you sleep with your phone next to your bed, then checking social media and email as soon as you wake up is likely to be the default decision. Or, if you keep ice cream or chocolate in your kitchen, then eating it is more likely to be the default decision. Alright? This is a big thing. Honestly, if you don't keep ice cream or chocolate in your house or if you don't keep alcohol in your house, you're way less likely to eat it or drink it. Same with your phone next to your bed. Same if you turn your phone off and put it in another room. You're way less likely to check it. And, this is what I mean, a good environment is we are getting these negatives away, removing them, so that we don't have to rely on willpower as much, it just, our environment supports the right decisions. And, we want to design for optimal defaults. And, if you purposely design your environment to remove bad defaults and add good defaults, you're much more likely to make good default choices that are aligned with your objectives and goals. So, of course, we want to try and be more disciplined. We want to work on our mindset. We want to improve our self-control and all of that. But, we also want to make our environment support that, too, because that really supercharges everything. So, here's how you design for optimum default. So, you want to start by auditing your environment. So, take a good look at your living and working environment and make a list of all of the things that are in it. And, this includes your location, your house, your office, the rooms in your house, bathroom, kitchen, the technology you've got, furniture, people, everything. Everything that you come into contact with in your environment. So, take a look around at that, write it. And, then you want to make a list, like make a list in Google Sheets or Google Docs or something, or write it down. And, then you want to define your goal, by reviewing your vision, mission, and principles, which we've already done. So, if you look at that, then you can find out what your goal is. And in it, define value actions. So, define the actions and behavior that contribute the most towards achieving your goal. So, this is simple. Alright? We know what our goal is, it's our vision and mission. And then when we want to define the value actions, those are the actions that are going to help us achieve that goal. The things we have to do to achieve that goal. Write those down. Define those things. And, now what you want to do, is you want to categorize your environment items. So, look at the items in your list and categorize them as negative, which are things that don't support value actions, and positive, the things that do support value actions. And, score each item on a scale from minus 10, which is a negative, to 10, which is a positive. So, to give you an example, you could just create a Google Sheet, and you could just list down all the items in your environment. Like, TV, projector, laptop, PlayStation, you know, you could list them all down. iPad. God knows what you've got in there. And then, what you do, is you define your goal, which you've already got, vision, mission, principles. And then, the value actions. What are the things that you have to do each day to achieve that goal. Well, it might be sales calls, creating content, focused building the business, anything that relates to that. And now, what you want to do is categorize items as either negative or positive and give them a score. So, if there's things in your environment that don't support value actions, or distract you from doing value actions, then they're negative. Prime example, a TV. Having a TV is a stupid thing to have. You don't need one, and the real cost isn't paying for the stupid TV. The real cost is watching the stupid TV. You know, some people think, "Oh, but I paid like two grand for this TV. It would be a damn waste to throw this thing out." No it wouldn't, it would be a damn waste to continue watching that thing, alright? And so, get rid of it. Or, if you don't want to throw it out, just put it in the shed or something, but get that thing the hell out of your house. I don't have any TVs, anywhere. Zero. There's no TVs. We do not have cable, we don't have anything, 'cause I don't want to even be tempted to watch a TV, so I don't have one. Get rid of, like if you've got an Xbox or a PlayStation, get rid of it. Get rid of everything that's going to distract you. If you've got a projector, if you've got iPads, and all this crap, get rid of it. They're just distractions. And, also, bad food and things like that, get rid of it. If you've got alcohol in the house, get rid of it. You know, basically anything that's going to distract you, get rid of it. And then, you want to also categorize things that are good. You know, things that support you to do your goal, and those are the positive things. Now, what's some positive things? Well, it could be your desk and it could be your laptop and your microphone and your headphones and your journal, like if you've got your journal, it could be the consulting.com box-set and materials. It could be a whiteboard. You know, things that are actually helpful for you to complete valuations, and then you can give those a score. And then, you want to eliminate negatives. So, eliminate all negative items from your environment. Like I already told you to do that. Get rid of that damn TV. Get rid of the PlayStation and Xbox and all that crap. At the end of your life, when you're dying, you will not say, "Man, I'm so glad that I spent that time playing that Xbox." You won't say that. You won't say, "I'm so glad I spent that time watching that television." So, get rid of it. And, if you can't, hide it or distance these objects from you, alright? Get them away or hidden from you. You know, if you can't see it, it's kind of like it doesn't exist. It's better to just completely eliminate it, but if you can't then get it out of your site, or just get it far away from you. We take the path of least resistance, so if we put a lot of resistance there, then it just makes it easier not to do the things we don't want to do. And then, we want to stimulate positives. So, identify the most positive items in your environment and bring them closer to you, and make them more visible and hard to forget or not notice, and add visual cues that nudge you in the right direction. So, for example, at night, at the end of my day, I plan tomorrow's day, and I write it down in my journal exactly what I'm going to for the next day, just in 30-minute increments. And, then I leave that journal open, on my desk, with the pen in it, on that page. And then I leave my laptop there sitting, and I have everything sitting on my desk like that, and I also put my gym gear out the night before. And that way, when I go to bed at night and then when I wake up in the morning, my gym gear's ready there. And then when I go and sit down at my desk, I know exactly what to do. Alright? That's stimulating the right thing. I'm kind of putting these visual cues to nudge me in the right direction. I also have [inaudible 00:22:46] in my house, who is a human cue, who's going to be like, "Do that work, do that, do that, do that." You know, I'm putting things around me in my environment to help me succeed. And, then we want to introduce positives. So, we're trying to eliminate the negatives, we're trying to stimulate the positives if we have them, but then we're not just limited to what we've already got in our environment. We can also add things in. And, you want to not add bad things in. So, you don't want to go out and start buying more TVs or more Xbox or more computer games. Do not do that. Do not bring bad things into the environment. That's like, imagine if you've got this plant, alright? And, you want this plant to grow big and be healthy and have a good life. And, you're going into the garden to look after the plant, and you're watering it and doing things like this. But then every now and then you go out and you just decide to go and grab some gasoline, and then just bring it back in a massive barrel and just start drenching the plant in this gasoline. It's not very good for the plant. And, that's what you're doing to yourself, you're the plant, and also your business is the plant too, when you bring bad shit into your environment. Instead bring good stuff in. So, think to yourself, what things could you add to your environment that would stimulate value actions and discourage or eliminate negative behavior? And, you want to experiment by introducing new things, and testing and measuring and iterating. Now, to give you an example here, I have tested quite a lot of different stuff. And, one of the things that ... I'll give you an example of something that I really liked, was incense. You know, I brought incense in, and I started lighting it and I really liked it. And, I'm going to explain why incense soon, in this module, but it does something to your brain and I found that I performed better and was more comfortable when I had it, so I decided to keep it. But, if I introduced incense and I hated it and I actually did worse, then I would have gotten rid of it. And so, you just want to try experimenting with bringing things in to the environment, testing them, seeing if they make you better or worse, doing more of what works, less of what doesn't, in a never-ending, repetitive, iterative cycle. And, here is the science on what actually makes a high performance environment. And, there's two parts to this, part two of two and part one of two. So, you want to have your environment clean. So, dust, dirt, and grime are sources of negative energy that distracts and interferes with comfort and motivation. So, keep it clean. And, you know, to keep it clean, we have a cleaner, and our cleaner comes twice a week. Because, I noticed that I was more happy and I did better work when my apartment was clean. And so then, I made sure we got a cleaner, but then I noticed that it made such a difference, so I was like, "Well, let's do it twice a week." Now it's always clean. So, you know, keep it clean. Organized. Find what you want, when you want it. Save time, move fast, and feel more in control, and empowered. This is what happens when you keep things organized. So, you should have some drawers right by your desk and you should know exactly what's in the top drawer, the middle drawer. You should have everything organized, and you should have everything you need. You're trying to have everything at arm's reach that you could need throughout the day, nothing that you don't need, and you should have everything organized so you always know where it is and you always know how to automatically grab it and access it, without having to think or go searching for it. And then, you don't want clutter. So, clutter distracts, it irritates, and clutter also attracts more clutter. Just like mess attracts more mess. So, get rid of it. It also talks to you and it distracts you. It's like, "Hey, look. Are you going to clean me? Are you going to get angry because I'm here?" Get rid of it. And then, colors. You know, you want your environment to be colorful. So, plain white environments cause anxiety and depression and color nurtures you and stimulates creativity and joy. So, introduce some color. Seriously, this actually ... a lot of this is scientific, you can Google this stuff. Natural light. This is a big one. So, light is energy. And, light motivates us to take action and it also stimulates good emotions. And, when we have good emotions, we tend to take action. So, natural light is a big one. And, I always make sure I've got natural light drenching into the place. And, the more the better. And, you also want other light too. And, three sources of incandescent light is optimal. So, what I mean by this, is you could have one floor lamp, one desk lamp, and your roof lights. It's better to have three sources than just one. And, you want to use incandescent light. You want to avoid fluorescent light like the plague. This shit will drive you nuts and it will totally upset your nervous system. It'll make you feel like you're in a mental asylum. So, get rid of that. And, sound. So, buzzing from like a washing machine or a dishwasher or if you've got a computer that's got a loud fan, or if you've lights that go zzzz, probably if you've got those fluorescent lights, you know, that stuff isn't good. It will upset you. Even if you don't think it does, it will be getting in, to the subconscious, and upsetting your nervous system. And, you want to either have it completely silent, or if you live in nature you can have the windows open, you can hear the birds and things like that, or the waves on the beach. Sound matters too. And then furniture. You want to choose attractive, comfortable furniture, and you want to keep it in good condition. And, you should love its look and feel. You know, you don't want to have stuff around you that pisses you off. And, you also don't want to have stuff around you that's uncomfortable and that you don't like using. So, make sure you choose it carefully. And then plants. So, our natural habitat is the outdoors and nature, and having plants brings nature inside. It also purifies your air and it calms you. And, I'm not joking. This actually helps you a lot. So, that's why I always make sure that we have plants in our office. And then art, and this is a big one. You've probably noticed I have art in all of my places, and lots of it. So, art feeds a space with color and scenes that can lift your spirits and your energy. So, choose art you really love. And, this makes a big difference. You know, art really stimulates us, it gives us energy, it makes us creative. And, you want to have art that you like. Not a specific type of art, it's just all about art that you like. It's about choosing things you like. There's no one way to conform to, but making it your own. And, mementos. So, mementos are good to have around. Like, it might be an image of you doing something, or it might be of your family, or it might be of your goals or whatever. And, mementos hold the energy of the memory associated with them. And, you want to add positive, energizing mementos as anchors. And then the temperature. This is a big one. So, our bodies and minds operate best at a certain temperature. Too hot and we'll be irritated. Too cold and we'll be worried about being cold. And, this is actually happening at like a limbic system kind of level inside your brain that you're not even able to control. System kind of level inside your brain that you're not even able to control. So if you're too cold it's like a survival mechanism and it's not going to let you concentrate on some form of work. It's just going to be like do we need to get warm? And if you're too hot it's going to be do we need to get cold, so it's going to distract you. So make sure that if you're too hot or too cold, get some damn air conditioning. And I like to work at 65 degrees Fahrenheit, which is 18 degrees Celsius, and it's to sleep. I like to sleep real cold, 60 Fahrenheit, 15 degrees Celsius. There's supposed to be a C there, not an F. And this is like my optimal for working. So I'm just a little bit cold. I'm not normal, I'm not warm or hot, but I'm just a little bit cold. But not too cold so it's irritating. And sleeping, I like to be really cold. And I've measured sleep and everything, and when you sleep in a cold environment it really brings your resting heart rate right down. So a lot of pro athletes sleep in really cold rooms because it really helps bring your heart rate down and gives you a deeper, more restorative sleep. The best thing to have for sleep is completely quiet, silent and completely black, like blacked out. No light coming in, or no digital lights or anything in there. No phones next to you. Leave your phones out of the bedroom, all devices out of the bedroom. And then really cold. So dark, quiet, cold, and you'll have way better sleeps. And a view. So views of the city or nature trigger physical, psychological and physiological wellbeing. And there's a reason why people stop and go whoa, and they look at views and they like views and they're attracted to views. Because they really stimulate us. And expansive views are best. And you'll probably notice with every place I've had, I always try to have a really good view like a view of New York or a view of the beach. Because I know that I want to have a good environment that I'm comfortable in so that I want to go into it and do good work. And then airflow. So you want to make sure that you've got clean air flowing from the outside because it keeps you energized and motivated, and it makes you healthier. So make sure that you've got at least a window open or some air flowing through and it's not getting all stuffy in there. And then smell. So smell is the only sense that bypasses the thalamus, which is where it relays it out to the logical, conscious mind. And it goes directly to the limbic system, and that's where our emotion comes from. So smell is a very powerful sense, and that's why I light incense. And the reason why I light incense is because I'm trying to really anchor this state and this environment for me. So when I come into my office I've got my day planned out. I'm used to my desk, I'm used to my laptop and everything. I know what I'm supposed to do. There's no distractions there and I've got everything scheduled. I know what I need to do and now I'm just going to do it. And then also having that smell there and the view and the art around, it all just kind of snaps together and it just brings me into that state and gets me into the zone. And then I just go. And smell is very powerful to do this. That's why if you look at those places where they meditate and monasteries and things where monks go, they will often light incense because of this. And so I recommend trying it out yourself. And then acoustics. So, hard surfaces create echo that make us anxious. If you've got all hard surfaces like tiles, and then all glass and all of this hard surface, it's going to echo and that's going to really irritate you. So if you've got a hard surface environment and there's lots of echo, use rugs and some fabrics to soften the acoustics and remove the echo. It makes a huge difference. And then pets. So, pets stimulate positive emotions and they heighten our sensory awareness, and they make us healthier and happier. And it's scientific. I'm not joking. You can Google this, try it out. They actually are a huge influence in your environment. And that you've noticed with me, I've got two cats. And it's funny, Andrew Argue got one too 'cause I recommended it. And at first he didn't like the idea, but then he said it was definitely worth it. Like having a pet, it actually makes your environment way more comfortable, way more motivating and nice to be in. Now, high performance environments part two. You only want one computer so use one laptop only. You don't need two laptops. You don't need a damn desktop computer and a laptop. You don't need two desktop computers and a laptop. For God's sake, you only need one damn laptop. And more computers is more issues. With a laptop, you've got to worry about having it charged. You've got to worry about having this right software on it. That software needs updates. And then your file storage, where you're storing different files and things. And your browsers, your browser bookmarks and everything. And if you've got more than one, it's hard enough to just keep one optimized and clean and up-to-date all the time. If you have two of them, it gets twice as damn hard. So why would you just add more complexity into your life for no added benefit? Just use one laptop. And the reason why I say laptop is because they can go anywhere and you only need one. If you buy a desktop, then if you want to work somewhere else you can't. And then if you travel you can't take it with you. It's just best to get a laptop. And I don't have a TV in my house, so if my wife and I want to watch a movie we just use the laptop, right? Simple. And then make it fast. So what's better than having one laptop is having one really fast laptop. So you want to get a fully specced, top performing laptop that's as fast as possible. And it will pay dividends for life. And I use a 15 inch MacBook Pro. That's the one I use and I always use that and always, just once a year, I just get the highest specced one. And the thing is, is that we're in the business of exporting videos, uploading videos, and we use our computers like a workhorse. So we do thousands, hundreds of thousands, of actions and processes on our machine. And if you add up just the slightest little load time difference between all of those little processes, it gets exponential. And it is actually worth it. I modeled it out and made a spreadsheet to actually determine whether it was worth it or not. And it's really worth it. It's a good investment to have a fast laptop. The real time suck is on exporting videos. If you don't have a fast machine and you're trying to export a long TNADP video, you're going to be wasting a lot of time. So get it fast. Then you only need one phone. Use one phone only, and more phones equals more issues. And you want to use your cell phone and ditch the office and home landlines. So at my house we don't have a landline. At my office nobody has a landline. Then me, I just have one cell phone. Wife, just one cell phone. That's all you need. And then no tablets. Nobody runs a serious operation on a fucking iPad. You only need one laptop and one phone. And with one laptop and one phone it's already too much. Why the hell do you need the tablet in the middle there? You know, you've got the phone. I get it. You need a phone because you can't take your laptop in your pocket. And then you've got your laptop, because I get it. You can't create Facebook ads and create PowerPoint slides and Keynote slides from your damn phone, right? So you need a laptop and you need a phone. But what I don't understand is this damn tablet thing in the middle. It's not a phone. You can't put it in your pocket and walk around with it. And it's not a laptop. You can't actually use it for any real work. So it's just a fucking waste. Get rid of it. Don't have them. It's just another thing that is not necessary at all. And then you only need one screen. So the more screens you have, the less money you probably make. And more than one screen means that you're probably multitasking, and multitasking is bad. So you shouldn't create an environment that encourages multitasking. You should create an environment that encourages single tasking. And single tasking is single screen. Now, there's some roles like customer support and things where they might actually benefit from having two screens. Like one laptop screen and then one monitor. I understand that. But you definitely don't need any more than that. And I run my business with just one laptop. I don't even have an external monitor. It's just that. It's all about focus. And then use a mouse. So, a mouse is scientifically proven to be faster, more accurate and more productive than a touchpad. Google it. You can read all of the studies, all of them you want. There's been quite extensive research. They took even the most efficient touchpad users and put them up against just your average mouse user, and the mouse user was way more efficient. This is another place to gain a lot more speed and more edge. And no crap. And crap, I mean all the sort of crap that people plug into their computer. So you don't need an extra webcam. You don't need all of these different fancy mics. I see some people that have these fancy mics connected to these fancy arms, connected to these fancy amplification systems and voice mixing systems, and then plugged into a computer with software to then mix this audio even further. I'm like holy shit, it's just some sound, right? Like I get it. You need to have a mic for recording content. I just have one mic that just plugs in USB. That's it. And then when I'm not using that mic, I just put it away in my drawer. Then when I need to record content or do a Q&A, plug the mic back in. That's all you need. One mic. You don't need any of those amps or anything. God forbid, you should not be further manipulating the sound as it comes into the software on your computer. Just keep it simple. You also don't need speakers. Your laptop has speakers built into it, and then you can just have a set of headphones that plugs in. And then you don't need extra screens. You just want to use your laptop and your mouse and keep it simple. And then ethernet. So, get the fastest internet possible. This is a no-brainer. So wherever you are, find out what the fastest possible internet connection you can get is and then get it. Seriously, this will make a huge difference 'cause we have to upload videos, we have to wait for things to load, we have to do hundreds of thousands of page loads. And the smallest little microsecond thing there gives us a massive advantage and makes us way more productive. And then above and beyond having internet, use a hardwired ethernet cable. Not WiFi. And why ethernet? Well, it's faster, quite a lot faster. And it's also way more reliable. If you're going to be doing live Q&A calls like webinars, if you're going to be doing strategy sessions over Skype and things like that, WiFi can drop and ethernet won't. Seriously, ethernet makes a big difference. Then one thing. So, don't have anything on your desk other than the one thing you need to do. Which means the only things that are on my desk usually is a laptop, a mouse and then my note pad which just has what I need to do. And then a pen to just cross off that I've done it. And then a LaCroix. I'm not joking. That is it. The only things that are in front of me are the things that I just need to do. And that's what you should have too. And then on the computer I only have one application open at a time. If you look down the bottom of my toolbar here, look, the only applications that are open right now are ScreenFlow 'cause that has to be 'cause I'm recording my screen. Keynote, which has to be because I'm using Keynote. And Preview because I just was showing you a thing before, a quote card. Sorry, not a quote card. A pinup. And now the only things I've got open are those. That's all you need. And look at my toolbar. I have nothing. So don't have distraction here. If you've got different crap here, it's going to pull your eye and you're going to go over there and click on it, right? Like I have Slack. I just have to click on the search and then type in slack, and then open up Slack so that Slack's out of sight. I only go to Slack if I need to go to it. And then when I've done what I need to do in Slack, I quit out of it. And you want to get into that habit too. When I go to do a customer interview I'll open up Skype and log in. I'll do the customer interview and then I will get the hell out of Skype. You do not want to leave things open. They're just portals and gateways that give other people access to distract you. So get in, get out, get in, get out. Only have one thing open at a time. And minimal apps. Have the bare minimum apps on your computer and on your phone, and constantly try to delete more of them. I treat this as a game. How little apps can I have? Most people play the opposite game. How many apps can I have? I play the opposite. Same with my computer. I'm always searching through there trying to get rid of more. And then I only have four apps on my phone, by the way. And then one tab. So people who have more than four browser tabs open or, God forbid, more than one browser window open at a time, are psychotic and poor. So you only need one tab open. And you might need two or three at max if you're doing something fancy, but you do not need more than three damn tabs open at a time. If you're reading, if you think, oh, but I want to read this later, you don't. You either want to read something now because it's relevant, or you don't. If you put it in a pile for later, you won't read it. And then you'll just feel anxious because you kind of think you want to read it, but you know you don't because you don't. But yet you still think that you kind of should so you still keep it there, and then it just repeats the cycle. Don't be an idiot. Just either read the damn thing or don't. And keep one tab open at a time. And then at reach. So, you want to have everything you need in your drawers reachable if needed but out of sight and categorized and labeled. So I have my phone. It's turned off and I put it into my drawer by my computer in my desk. It's not out on my desk, because if my phone is on my desk and turned off, well, it's still going to steal my eye and I'm going to get distracted. Even if it's off. But, man, if it's on my desk and that sucker is on, and then I've got notifications, I'm just asking to lose. It's like I'm pretty much putting a big sign up saying, "Please, people, just come and distract me. Come and help me fail." Right? Don't be an idiot. Turn that thing off, get it out of sight. And I try to put everything I'm not using out of sight. Like don't have all of of these piles of things you've got to do. Don't have all of these piles of bills and things you've got to pay. Get that stuff out. Just if you've got all this stuff you've got to do, get focused and do it all. Get that pile down to zero and then have it clean. But don't have all this crap all over your desk. And then have your phone off. So turn your phone off and put it in your drawer and focus. And only touch your phone when you need to. So if I need to call someone, I'll take out my phone, turn it on and call somebody. Or if I'm expecting somebody to call me because it's scheduled in my calendar, I'll get it out of my drawer and turn it on and have a call. Or if I need to post a story to Instagram I'll take it out and turn it on and post a story, turn it off, put it back away. All right? I don't text on it, I don't use any social media other than when I have to post something. And I am not using it for anything. I don't have any apps. It's off, it's away. And no email. So don't check your email or have it pushed to you or notify you via your computer or your phone, you psychotic freak. So most people I see, I'm not joking, they have their damn email push to their computer. So when they get an email it's like, blip, it just pops up here. Just like distracting, distracting, distracting. What's worse is they've also got it turned on on their phone. So they're sitting at their desk trying to focus, and then every two minutes it's like blip, this email pops up on their computer. And then it goes blip on their phone and then they look at their phone. And then it goes blip back on their computer and they look back at their computer, and then, blip, back on their phone. And it's crazy. Like get rid of it. You don't need to know what emails you're getting. You only need to know what emails you have when you are going to read and reply to those emails. Like I reply. I read my email at the end of the day and reply to it at the same time. I get it all done in one hit. I look at the email, I read it and I reply to it and I get it done, and then I get out again. And I don't check it again until the same time next day. It makes a big difference. And then a clean desktop. So if you have a messy desktop with files and folders all over it, you're probably neurotic and broke. So fix it. Now, if we look at my desktop here, all we have is Google Drive and the Uplevel program, 'cause that's what I'm working on now, and these resources which I'm going to be referring to in this video. But if it wasn't for me doing this video right now, all of this stuff would be away. And you can see here that this is the module I'm working on now, and this is just a reminder here, right? And that's all I've got. So then when I've completed this task, all of this will be gone. And all of this. It will just be a completely clean slate. And then when I've finished Uplevel, this will be gone and it will be a clean slate. The project I'm working on is here. The component of that project I'm working on is here. And the components of that project are over here, right? So when I've done this, I've done that. And when I've done that, I put it in this. And then when I've done that, I put that in here. And then you can see kind of how I work it. And then binaural beats. So to focus, listen to binaural beats on YouTube instead of music and use simple headphones. So don't use Bluetooth headphones or any of that crap. It's just best to have some hardwired headphones that just plug in, and then it's simple. If you've got all these different Bluetooth devices, if you've got all of this different stuff, it's a nightmare. You just want to keep things simple, and binaural beats really help. Those really help you focus. And then minimalism. So, apply minimalism and essentialism to everything that you do, both physical and virtual. And you want to eat, breathe, live, and sleep and dream about minimalism. Because not only does it make you feel way better, it makes you way happier. It makes life better but it also helps you be more productive, get more stuff done, help your clients and make more money. It helps everything. Clutter and lots of junk, and just trying to do lots of stuff, is just always a recipe for disaster. Always be a minimalist. And here you can see my different. I've always tried with my environments to have them, you know, you can see that I've practiced what I'm preaching right now. So even when I was in my parents' garage, right, I had just my desk here and I had my laptop. And what's funny is when I was most poor I had two screens. So this is back when I was broke and I had two screens. There's my laptop, there's my screen. But I still had plants in there and I still, even though I was poor, I tried to make it kind of nice. You can see I had natural light in there. Another lamp over here. I had some books here. I was trying to make a nice environment. You can see I've got rugs in there too. And then when I moved to my apartment in New Zealand, you can see this was my office I had here. And you can see I had a motorbike in here, a library with my books, some art. Lots of natural light again. And then I moved into another office when I started hiring a team and ran my agency in New Zealand. And you can see here I just had my laptop. That was it. And a mouse. And then I had natural light again. Art, some lamps and things, a rug and a motorbike. A motorbike kind of became my little thing that I liked to have. And then I went to New York, and then I got tons of light and a massive view. And then you can see I just had my laptop, no screens, and a little mouse next to it. And I used to have this desk phone because I actually thought that I'd be using that for strategy sessions. But I found it just easier to use Skype with headphones, so this ended up getting eliminated and I simplified it down from this. And you can see there's not much around me. I keep it real simple. And then I actually ended up putting a motorbike in here a bit after this photo, and so I had some art and all of this in here. And you can see how I've always kind of done this with my environment. And what it does is it makes it kind of like my little zone, and I want to be in there. It's my happy place, it's where I like doing stuff. I see some people in their offices are miserable. If your office is in a shitty, dark cupboard, then you're not really going to want to go into that shitty, dark cupboard. But if your office is in an awesome place, then you're going to love going in there. And that's what you're trying to do. You're trying to incentivize yourself to go in there. Because if you go in there the chances of working are way higher. And if you go in there and start working, then your chances of succeeding are way higher. So you want to do everything you can to incentivize winning. And then this was my apartment in New Zealand, and you can see I had some guitars here, more art. I didn't have a TV but I did have a stereo because I like listening to music but I don't want to get distracted by a damn TV. And it's funny, I had this pool table but I think I played one game of pool the whole time because I'm too busy focusing. And then here was my apartment in New York. You can see I put that motorbike in there. And you can see here all I have is my laptop and my phone. And obviously I'm not working right now because my laptop's in that case and my phone's on my desk. If I'm working I'll just have my laptop out, phone will be away. And then a classic LaCroix and a view. And then here a comfortable couch that I like sitting on or reading, with natural light again. Natural light really helps. Views help. And then keep it simple, create a nice space. And then this was my consulting.com offices in New York. You can see here we've got art again. We've got natural light, view, plants and then a nice minimal desk. You can see here again, very minimal, lots of natural light and art. Make it colorful. There's our meeting room. Natural light, art, colorful. And then this is where my office is now in Venice, California. And so where I'm sitting right now is I've got a desk here, so when I look out I'm just looking out at the ocean. I've also got a fire and a balcony and stuff, and so it's again I've got natural light and a view and color. And then Andrew Argue really listened to my advice on this topic. And if you want to know why he's done very well, it's 'cause the dude fucking listens really well, surprisingly well. He asked me about whether he should ... He was living in this really horrible apartment with his wife and they got woken up all throughout the night because the walls were paper thin and they would hear people coughing and people wheezing. And it was so gross they could hear other people going to the bathroom in the apartment next door. And there were sketchy people hanging around. It was such a bad environment that it's hard to actually think like, "Oh, I'm going to change the world and I'm going to really achieve something here." And he said, "Do you think I should get another apartment?" I said, "Yes, you should definitely get the hell out of there." And so he got a place where he liked. He's got a view, natural light and it's nice and simple. He just uses the same sort of setup. One laptop, one screen and then a notepad and then a drink. And then he's got some art here, right? Just keep it simple. He also got a cat. That was interesting. And he actually said the cat helped a lot because it just makes it more comfy and cozy and warm to be in that space. And when it's like that you want to be in there more often. So those things actually make a huge difference. But you might think, "Oh, really? These things aren't going to make me more money." But they will make you do more work and when you do more work, you will make more money. So that is how those things make you more money. And I've included for download, beneath this video in the resources section, it's called Number One Environment. And this is just a summary, so that you can download this, of how to improve your environment. So, like I said, you want to define your goal, audit your environment and then categorize the items as either contribute to the goal or detract from the goal. And then eliminate the detractors and the negatives, stimulate the positives and then introduce some positives if you want to. And then here's some things that you want to make sure your environment has, and more recommendations to improve your environment too. If you improve all of these things, you're going to take your environment to the next level. 'Cause a lot of my performance comes from my environment. If you take me out of my environment and put me into a shitty one, I won't perform very well. I'll still be able to perform but not very well. If you go put me in a dark closet with a Windows PC and no mouse, and it's just noisy and disturbing, I'm not going to be able to produce the best work, I'm not going to be able to work really well. And it's like our environments influence us in a big way. Now let's talk about routines and ingraining automatic excellence. So we always want to think in systems. And so we talked about really modifying our environment and improving the conditions of our environment so that our system can run more efficiently and effectively. And we do that by removing negatives, adding positives. And then we really want to work on routines. So with a system, if we know what a good input is, and a good input is something that gets put in and creates a good output, if we know what a good input is and we know what a good process is, then we want to make sure that it's routinized. We want to make sure that it happens again and again and again and again and again and again, and it keeps happening as much as possible all day, every day, 24/7, 365, and it never ends, right? It's like humans, we know that water is good for us so we want to drink water every day. And so we want to create a routine to drink that water, and we want to have an environment that encourages us to drink water, right? And so not only do we want to work on our environment, but we also want to work on our routines so that things can happen consistently. And a routine is a sequence of actions regularly followed, or a fixed program. And routines are system- Fixed or a fixed program, and it routines our systems. So routines win, and the most successful people in the history of the world, or the most successful people in history, the ones many refer to as geniuses had one thing in common, and most adhered to a rigid and specific daily routine, and average with the routine beats smart without a routine every single time. Remember that. Now I can imagine some of you are probably thinking, oh, but Sam, I want to be free. I want to have fun. I want to live my life. Well, let me tell you about the freedom myth. And most people believe having a rigid daily routine isn't living, and they prefer to have freedom to do what they want when they want. The problem is that achieving goals requires planning, and execution, and discipline, and impulse control. Achieving goals is what actually makes us happy, and achieving goals is what makes us free. If we want to make more money so that we can do more things, and live better, and be happy that we've achieved something, that requires achieving the goal. To do that, we need a plan, and then once we've got a plan, we need to execute the plan, and to execute the plan, we need to be disciplined. And you can guarantee that you're going to have little impulses and things pop up. There's going to be distractions. The people who do what they want when they want, they do this at the cost of their goals. So they think that they're free, but really they're not. They're free in that moment, but they're prisoners for life, and they're their own, they're putting themselves in prison because if you can't control yourself, then you basically, you aren't free. Freedom is actually when you have self control, and you tell yourself hey I want this goal, so I'm going to do this work, and no, I'm not going to get distracted. And I know that my mind's going to play tricks on me, and that I think I should be free, and I think I should have some fun right now, but I know I need to achieve this goal. So freedom actually comes from constraints, and happiness achievement, resourcefulness, and creativity come from imposing constraints on ourselves. And if we want one million dollars a year, if we want to have a one mil a year business or more, we need to plan, and then we need to take daily action. And impulses will tempt us, and we might feel, we might not feel like it, and friends will probably want to hang out, but achieving our goal is our ultimate freedom. Remember this. Freedom comes from constraints. Freedom comes from self discipline and controlling your impulses. Routines create talent and confidence. So if you make a decision to do something and you commit to taking action towards it daily, for however long it takes to complete it, you affirm not only your choice to begin but your ability to do it. And this creates talent, and skill, and supreme self confidence to tackle bigger things. If you can't, the people who can't even change anything ... If someone says I want to wake up early, and they really mean it, and then they try to wake up early and they don't and they keep going along like this, and they never can, what do you think their person self confidence is going to be like? Their person doesn't trust a word they say because they know that they're just a liar. So if they think oh I'm going to achieve this goal, but they know they can't get out of bed. They're kidding themselves, and this is why routines really shape people. They not only make you wildly talented and skilled, but they give you supreme self confidence. How do you create your routine? Step one, you want to start by pulling up your Google Calendar and looking at the week from a bird's eye view. And what I mean is you want to go like this. So I'll pull mine up, and I'll go to my calendar, and I'll go to a week like this, for example. You want to be looking at the week view. And then what you want to do is you want to plot sleep first. So set your sleep and wake time, and it should be the same every day, and it should be realistic and give you at least seven to eight hours a night. So you can see here that's the first thing I plotted. So sleep goes from 11:00 p.m. til 7:00 a.m. So I create it here. Sleep 11:00 til 7:00. You want to do that first because you want to plot in these things which have to happen first. And then you just want to set this to repeat. If I go to edit this here, you can see that it's going to repeat daily. It's going to repeat daily every single day, so I only have to set it once. Then I color code it. And then plot exercise. So set your exercise time, and it should be the same every day, and it should go for 30 minutes to an hour per day with set workouts. You can see I've got gym here at 7:00 a.m. I wake up at 6:50, then at 7:00 I'm at the gym. I got 10 minutes in there to put my gym gear on and get ready. You know workouts always happen here. Why do we sleep the same hours every day? Why do we go to bed at the same time, wake up at the same time, go to the gym at the same time? Because it's a standard. It's a routine. It's a habit. We don't have to look at our schedule to think oh, when am I supposed to go to bed? We know it's always 11:00. When do I wake up? We don't need to look at our damn schedule. We know it's 6:50. When's gym? Seven o'clock. Where's the gym? It's the same gym. And then I even know what I'm doing on each day. Monday is chest. Tuesday is cardio, high intensity training. And then Wednesday is back and shoulders. Thursday is a rest day, so I actually don't go to the gym here, but I still just have this thing in here. I'll usually go for a walk or something or do some stretches. And then Friday I do cardio again, high intensity training. And then Saturday I do legs. So legs, weights, squats and things. And then Sunday is a rest day, but I typically go for a walk or something with my wife, so I know exactly what's happening all days of the week. And then you want to plot your shower and breakfast. So set your shower and breakfast time, and it should be the same every day, and it should take 30 minutes total. So you can see shower and breakfast goes from 8:00 to 8:30. And you'll probably think, oh, do I really need to plot this in my calendar? You need to plot. Yes, you do because you need to see the things you have to do. Everyone needs to sleep. Everyone should be working out, and if you're not working out, then you're really hurting yourself. And if you're not having a shower, then you're kind of hurting yourself too. Same with breakfast. So you need to plot these things in. It's important to see. We have to plot non-negotiables first to see how much time we got left. And then, meditation. So set your meditation time, and it should be the same every day and go for 30 minutes total, and honestly this makes a huge difference. It'll change your life. Start meditating, and I just do it straight after this. So meditation, and it goes from 8:30, and I go, I do it for 20 minutes. So it goes from 8:30 til 8:50, but there's a 10 minute kind of buffer in there, so that's why it's half an hour. And then my workday starts at 9:00. And it goes until 9:30. And then work. So now you can see, now that we've plotted all of this stuff, we can see what time's left over for work. So you can set your work start time and end time, and it should be the same every day and go for five to six days a week. So I work 9:00 a.m. til 9:30 p.m. Monday to Saturday. So that is six days a week, 12 and a half hours a day. So that's what I do, and that's how much time I've got to make things happen. And then lunch. Set your lunch time, and it should be the same every day, and go for 30 minutes total. So bam, 12:30 lunch happens every day. Da da da all the way through. It's already set on repeat. And it's good to have these things routinized so that you know it's just automatic. You don't have to think about it. You don't have to do anything. It's just ready. And then planning. So you want to set a time to plan tomorrow today, every day, and put it at the very end of your day for 30 minutes daily. So planning tomorrow today happens at 9:00 pm, and it goes til 9:30. So it's the end of the work day. So on here I'll plan tomorrow, and when I say plan tomorrow, I mean plotting it into 30 minutes increments in my journal. And then dinner. So set time to eat dinner, and it should be the same every day and go for 30 minutes to an hour. You can see my dinner happens at 7:00 p.m. til 7:30. Same every day. So when am I having breakfast here? Lunch here. Dinner here. When am I planning? Here. Then when am I gyming? Here. Sleep here. Shower and breakfast here. It's all plotted. And then relaxing. So set time to relax in the evening and unwind so that you can go to sleep and recover, and it's ideal to have about two hours before you try to go to sleep of just unwinding. If I went straight from work to trying to sleep, I wouldn't go to sleep, and if I did, it would be a painful tortured sleep because if my mind's still racing and it's still in all of these details and things, it needs to just kind of unwind. I stop at 9:30, and then I go to sleep at 11:00, and that means I've got this time in here to relax with Ashleigh, my wife, and we'll either read a book together, or just chat, or we will go do something. Or actually we never go do something at this time. So typically just read, chat, or watch a movie. And yeah, that unwinding and then going to sleep. And I am ruthless with this sleep time and this wake up time. I feel like something is gravely wrong if it goes past this time and I'm not asleep or past this time I'm not awake. This is so ingrained in me that it's just, it's my mode of operation. My chemicals and hormones and cells, everything has adapted to this. And then I have day off. So I recommend setting at least one day to take off every week and rest without doing any work, and this actually improves productivity. So honestly I've tried to work more than 12 and a half hours a day before, and I'm pretty sure you'll believe me when I tell you that because I fucking test everything, and I want to do as much of everything as I can. I want to be on the knife's edge of the limit, and so I've tried. Believe me. I've tried having less sleep. Didn't go well. I've tried not working out. Didn't go well. I've tried having scattered meal times, different going to sleep times. I've tried not having wind down time. I've tried staying up late and waking up later and working during the night. I've tried all of these things, and all of them sucked. All of them were disasters and train wrecks. And I've also tried working seven days a week, and it was a train wreck too. You just get burnt out. And one day off a week, and I do it on Sunday, is perfect. So here it says Sunday, [Part 01:14:26] day. That's just my wife's nickname, so that's just my wife day. I don't do any work, check any email or do anything on that day. Nothing. Monday through Friday is work. Saturday is work, and I get to catch up on some work here too, and I do the livestream, and Sunday is completely off. And obligations. So set time for any of your recurring obligations, and try to use the same times to make it simple. So an example for this is ... Some obligations I have is I ... Well, relaxing with my wife. I have a wife, so it's important that I spend time with her, so I got that here. And then I also have my Uplevel Q and A call which goes on Monday from 6:00 til 8:00 eastern time. 3:00 til 5:00 Pacific. So that's plotted in here, and it repeats every week. And then I've got Quantum Q and A here, and then I have a management meeting with my team on Friday at 9:00. Then I do a livestream with Accelerator on Saturday. So here you can see I spend time with Accelerator people, Uplevel people, Quantum people. And then I have a meeting with my team too. And then I have a whole day with my wife and then this time with my wife too, so you can see my plotted things. These are the repeating things each week. And then I typically do three customer interviews a week, and so Monday I don't do one, and then I'll do one on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. This is an interview with my customers, and you'll notice that if I'm going to be doing a customer interview, it'll only be on these three days, and it'll only be at this time. So if I look at a previous one, look, it's here. Same time 9:00 a.m. and then 9:00 a.m. This week is different because I've got, I'm traveling, and I've got my Mastermind event and all of this, but you'll see it's always consistent like that. So I don't think, oh, when am I doing my next customer interview? I know when. It's just at 9:00 a.m. It's all of this I don't even have to look at my schedule. It just runs automatically. And then daily actions. So set time for your essential daily actions for your business. Things like ads, sales calls, Q and As, et cetera. See I plotted my Q and As, and then I don't have to do any sales calls at the moment or ads, anything like that, so you would plot that. If you need to do sales calls, you would have some time set for sales calls, and if you need to do ads, you block out some time for ads. If you need to do customer support, block that time out too. You want to block out all the time that you have to commit to things so that you can see what's left. And it's really important to do this because most people just consider time is this infinite thing that they can do whatever they want with, but it's very limited and finite, and you have to really plan it and be ruthless with it. If you don't watch it, if you don't keep your eye on it, it'll run away from you. And then project time. So the remaining time that you have left is for completing important projects that support your goals. And so I've been, it's taken me years to be able to optimize my schedule so that I have this much project time. This is like the best thing for me because here I'm doing my customer interviews, which is creating content for my community and learning about my market, learning more about my market. Here I have to have a meeting with my team so that I can keep up to date with them. Then I'm keeping up to date with Accelerator, Quantum, and Uplevel. I'm working on my fitness. I'm sleeping. I'm showering. I'm eating properly. I'm meditating. Spending time with my wife, whole day with my wife. These are all the things that I have to do to just keep things going efficiently and healthy and happy, and then at the rest of this time, all of this white space is just pure project time. So this is when I get to work on new projects, new hires, building new teams, designing our online portal software, designing and creating content like this. This is where I get to make moves to grow the business. Most people, their weeks are so full with errands and with chaos and with having to do all of this different crap that there's no white space left to actually work on the business. They're just stuck in the business. The stuff that's blocked out here is the only stuff I have to do to work within the business. Everything else is working on it and growing it. I have included for download beneath this video at a PDF called Number Two Routines. And in this here I've shown you just a summary of why we need routines and how to create your routine, so you can work on that. And you really just want to dial it in inside Google Calendar like that until you've got it perfectly optimized the way you want it. And then it just repeats every week. You don't have to set this up every week because you have set everything to repeat, and then your team starts to learn your routines. Everything gets routinized, and that's when you start to flow and be efficient. If I didn't have a routine, I wouldn't have achieved 1/100 of what I've achieved. Routine is important. Environment is important. Now let's talk about delegating and hiring people to handle type one waste. So here's something that I call the relentless improvement project, and it is extremely powerful. It will make you relentless. It'll seriously improve you, and your life, and your business, and it's very simple. So energy and time is finite. We have very little of it, and we must use it with extreme care because we can't get it back. People treat their money so carefully. They're like oh, no. I don't know about buying that, or I don't know about buying that. But dude, they don't treat their time very carefully. And I don't know about you, but I can make more money. It's just a concept. It's just a number, but time, I can't create that. Time is everything. And so I am most scrupulous with my time, and I treat it like it is way more valuable than money because it is. And this relentless improvement project will show you how to improve your concept of time and how you use your time. Step one is to track. You just want to track where your time goes every day. 24/7/365 in 30 minutes increments. So for seven days straight, track where your time goes. Track the time you're asleep. Track the time you wake up. Shower, breakfast, dropping the kids off at the school, whatever it is, track where it all goes. And do it in 30 minute increments. Don't do it in loose like oh I guess I start it here and then there. Properly track it. And then review it. Review where your time goes once you've gathered at least seven days, and ask yourself, does this contribute to my goal for every different action? Let's say cleaning the house. Does this contribute to my goal? No. Cooking food, buying groceries, dropping a package off, spending 30 minutes waiting in a line at the post shop to send a stupid envelope. Does it contribute to my goal? No. Standing in the Whole Foods waiting for 30 minutes to buy a kombucha and some corn chips, does it support my goal? No. Review where your time goes, and ask yourself, does this contribute? And most of it, if you're being honest, is going to be no. And then eliminate. So if the action doesn't serve your goal or your health, ruthlessly eliminate it, and nothing beats total removal. There's this saying in the computer world in the software engineering world that says, that goes, nothing works faster than no code. What it basically means is no code and no feature is the fastest. If you can get away with not doing anything, that is the best. That's why when instead of trying to automate it, or systemize it, or anything, what works best is just to eliminate it. Total and complete and absolute removal. Like with the TV, do I get a TV that just has a self control button on it? That's stupid. Just get rid of it. Do I try to hide the remote for the TV so I don't want to watch it? Stupid. Just eliminate it. Eliminate everything that doesn't serve the goal. Then you might think, oh well why still go to the gym, Sam? Why meditate? Why not eliminate that? Well, that helps your health. Meditation is 20 minutes, and it will help you be more focused throughout the day. You will easily more than save 20 minutes in distraction time from doing 20 minutes of meditation time, easy. It'll be hours, so it's worth it. Same with health. If you work out, you're going to have more energy. You're going to be more focused. You're going to be in a better mood. So even though you're spending an hour working out and 30 minutes meditating, you will make, you will earn more than that back throughout the day. Same with sleep. You might be like, Sam, shouldn't we just try and have less sleep? No. I've tried it. Doesn't work. It's better to have more sleep because then you don't get distracted and do stupid shit. And then automate. So if it's important to achieve your goal but not highly important. Well, can you automate it? So a prime example of this would be like ... What would it be? There's this kind of systems that I've got in place like with my Q and A calls. They will happen at the same time every week. Also, I have Nick Hauser in charge of that, and so he will schedule them and everything. He'll post the recordings. He will do all of that. He'll even host the Q and A course. All I have to do is show up. He handles all of that stuff. So all I just have to do is show up and then answer the questions and then get back to work. So that's an example of something that I couldn't completely eliminate because then my customers wouldn't get very good results. They'd still get results, but the Q and As really help. So I couldn't eliminate that one. I automated as much of it as possible, and I also delegated it as much as possible. All right? So that'll give you a perfect understanding of what I do. I seek do eliminate it, automate, or delegate it. If it's import, delegate is the next one. If it's important to achieve your goal but not highly important, can you delegate it to somebody? With the Q and A calls, I can eliminate them, but there's a lot of stuff that I don't need to do with a Q and A call. Do I need to schedule it in GoToWebinar every week, and do I need to then post the links in the Facebook group and inform everyone of when they're happening? No. Do I need to launch the webinar? No. Do I need to actually unmute people and mute them? No. Do I need to get the recording afterwards and upload it and do all of that? No. And do I need to schedule when it is each week? No. The schedule is the same all the time. That's automated, and everything else is delegated to Hauser. So that's how that works. And even with my customer interviews, which I do, if we come back here ... Customer interviews, they will only ever happen at these times, so I know exactly when they're happening. And then, if somebody wants to schedule one of these with me ... Well actually, I'll tell you how this process works. It'll enlighten you about how I actually apply this in practice. So first of all, I systemized Q and A call, I mean, customer interviews. Only at 9:00 a.m. and then the second thing I did is I actually set up a funnel for it, so I set up a system to make it more efficient. Why isn't this working? If I go to my funnel like the ... What is it called? Customer interview funnel. Here we go. Now I created a process here, and it just says schedule a time to speak with Sam Ovens. So I created a set process, and they select their time. And then it will show them what time is available. And as you can see, it's only ever at 9:00 a.m. Only on specific days and only ever at 9:00 a.m. So I just don't do them at any other damn time other than 9:00 a.m. That's it because that makes it simpler. It's routinized. And then once they do that, the next step is like a survey, and then they fill out, they answer some questions on the survey, and then, when they've done that, it tells them what to expect on the success page. It says, thanks for scheduling a time. I can show you right here actually. So then there's a survey, and we get them to complete a survey. What's your Skype ID? Do you have a high quality microphone? Your business website. What niche you in? Your current situation? Your experience going through? Describe your situation right now. So I'm getting this information ahead of the call so I can ... I'll tell you exactly how the process works, and then it comes to a success page that said it's scheduled and says to add me on Skype. Make sure that you have a high quality microphone. Make sure you're in a quiet room with a quiet place. Make sure you've got a light that's on you, and make sure you're using your laptop, computer, not a phone or a tablet. I've systemized all of this. And then what happens is when they complete their survey, it will actually go through to my email, and where it is interviews, it'll come into this. My assistant will put it in here. At 9:00 a.m., I will have finished my meditation, and then I'll look at my to do list, and it will say 9:00 a.m. scheduled customer interview, and I'll go, okay. Cool. So I'll come to my Gmail. I'll see who my customer interview is with. Then I'll come in here, and then I'll see who this person is, and here it'll talk all about what they do. And I'll only look at this two minutes before I actually get on Skype with them because I don't need to know about it before that. I just need to quickly look here. Then I'll open up Skype. Then they will have already added me, and then I'll do my interview with them. And then after that, I will just stop it, and I'll export it and upload it straight to YouTube, and then I'll just message Nick Hauser and say, done. And then Nick Hauser takes that uploaded thing, and then he creates a thumbnail, he creates a description, and links, and everything. He publishes it to YouTube, and then he takes that, and he posts it in the Facebook group, and he creates another description and everything over there. So the only thing that I'm doing is just that one tiny piece I have to do. Everything else is automated. Now a huge part in this process is actually finding out people, like who should we interview? Who's getting good results, and should we interview them? And then trying to actually message them to ask them to do an interview with us. It's a big process there. Nick Hauser handles all of that too. So Nick's always looking in the Facebook group about who's getting success and whatnot. And when he finds somebody who is and he thinks they're a good fit for an interview, he will message them, start a conversation, and then if he thinks they're right, he'll prequalify them by asking them some questions, and then he will send them a link to that process I just showed you, and then we'll schedule you into my calendar. And he will also make sure they've got a good microphone and stuff. And so he handles all of that. He handles the scheduling and the scouting. He also has access to my calendar. So he can see exactly ... If I go here and I look at settings and you can see who I've shared my calendar with. I don't know what you can see. They changed this thing. But I've shared my calendar with like everyone at my work. So Nick Hauser can see what interviews we've got each week. And he knows that he always wants to make sure that I've got two to three customer interviews a week. So he's managing that we always get two to three on the books and scheduled. He's scouting them. He's prescreening them. He's telling them to schedule. He's making sure they do schedule. Then he's making sure they have the right equipment ready to go. Then they're coming through the system and completing all of these processes and getting their side all ready and then at this routine time, I show up on Skype, quickly look at their survey, understand quickly, and then start the interview. Launch. And then I do the interview, stop it, upload it, and then message Hauser done. Right? So a normal person would just ... it would probably take them half the day all week to manage this damn thing. But I can really get in done in just no more than three hours a week to do three one hour interviews. It's pure value-added. Everything else is delegated, eliminated, systemized, routinized, it's been through this whole process. And everything I do is like this. The Q&A calls, like, this is the same thing. They happen at the same damn time every day, every week, and they have for years. Because this is the routine time. And then we even have like Q&A templates. So if I go here, like, up-level, live call template, right? So this is ready to go. So what do I have up on my screen when I do the Q&A call? Here it is. Bam. So this is routinized and systemized. And then Nick Hauser knows how to run them. He sees the intro the right way. You know, everything has been through this process so you can start to understand how I do it. And then intensify. If it's highly important and productive to achieve your goal; do more of it. More intensely and more often. So you'll notice the sales calls actually help you quite a lot. When I noticed that, I used to a shitload of sales calls. I would systemize my life and everything so I could just do sales calls like 12 hours a day, six days a week. And I did them and man that's how you start really making a lot of money. And then, you know, I systemized it further bu higher sales reps, getting a sales team, hiring customer support people, and all that stuff and then getting rid of cooking and cleaning and all of these other things so that I could just intensify on the things that had the most value. And then repeat. So this process is a never ending iterative cycle that changes with time and you want to repeat it weekly and never stop. I still do this all the time. And I still notice that there's a lot of time that gets wasted. Even though I've been through just insane amounts of optimization with this, there's still way more to go. And so you're never done and perfection is never achieved. And you just want it to keep going and keep optimizing. Now, let's talk about life maintenance tasks. What life maintenance tasks are is people waste most of their time doing things required to live. Things like cooking, cleaning, et cetera. And if these things ... And it's things you've got to watch out for. They seem necessary, so we justify them. But they suck our time dry. So these are the dangerous ones you've gotta watch out for. Because it's like, "Oh well, of course I've gotta cook because I need food. And I need to eat food otherwise I'll die. So I need to do this. And I need to go and wait in that line. I need to drive to the supermarket. I need to cook. I need to do the dishes. I need to do these things, Sam" But you've got it wrong. You don't need to do them. You just need to eat the food. All right? Somebody else can do all that other stuff. And what you want to do is identify value actions. SO these are actions that directly contribute to your goal. Things like sleep, exercise, innovation, sales calls, ads, building your funnel, building your product, things like that. You want to do more of these actions, more intensely and more often. And there's two type of waste. So Type 1 waste is actions that do not contribute to your goal, but are necessary. And these are life maintenance tasks. So things like, could be, cooking, buying groceries, doing dishes, and cleaning, doing the laundry. Because you have to do those things because you can't not cook or buy groceries or anything because you'll starve. You also can't not do laundry because you'll stink. So this is what I mean. They don't add value to our goal. Like it doesn't help us achieve our goal by doing that stuff. But they're necessary because we can't get rid of them. This is what we call Type 1 waste. And with Type 1 waste, we want to delegate this to someone else, systemize it, routinize it, and standardize it. And then there's Type 2 waste which is actions that add no value and are pure waste. So things like social media, Netflix, alcohol. And you want to totally eliminate these actions from your life. And delegating Type 1 waste. So after you've ruthlessly eliminated Type 2 waste, which is pure waste, you want to turn your attention to Type 1 waste. Sorry, it's suppose to say 1 there. I'll just correct that now. You want to turn your attention to Type 1 waste, which is necessary waste, and hire and delegate it to other people so that it's off your plate but continues to get done and the best decision ever. So delegating Type 1 waste like grocery shopping, cooking, dishes, cleaning, and washing, was one of the most satisfying, rewarding, freeing, and profitable decisions I ever made. And it will be the same for you. Seriously. So what to delegate? Well grocery shopping, cooking, dishes, cleaning the house, cleaning the car, mowing the lawns, gardening, laundering, paying bills, checking and sorting email, handling email and social media. Sorry, checking and sorting mail. Physical mail. Handling email and social media, personal trainer, et cetera. Delegate these things. And start with the big tasks. You know you might thinks, "Oh my god, there's so many things to do here." So start with the big ones and just chip at them. Nope? How do we eat an elephant? Well it's just one bite at a time. You gotta break it down. Chunk it. Start with the bug chunks and then just work your way through them. Before you know it, you'll have everything delegated. So most of your time is probably getting sucked into food related activities, cleaning, household and gardening maintenance, and running necessary errands. And so here's how you can delegate food. So two options. Number one is get pre-prepared, healthy meals delivered. And this is a good option if you live alone or you live with one other person, like just you and your partner. But it's not ideal if you have a family. And you want to Google search for pre-prepared healthy meals or meal delivery service or whatever and you'll be able to find one in your local city or maybe not if you're in the middle of nowhere. But it's worth a try. And the one I've been using in LA recently, because our chef hasn't been sent up here yet, is called Thistle. And you can check it out by going to consulting.com/thistle. And when you go here, you will see this is what I use. And so this is really healthy and it's actually tastes pretty damn good and they deliver it and I never have to worry about what I'm gonna eat or cooking it anything. And so this is really good if they service your area, I know they service these. But you could find something similar to this in your local city if just try searching on Google. So that's one option. The other option is to hire a personal chef, which is what I had in New York and I'm about to have again in LA. And this is good option if you like specific types of food or if you need specific nutritional needs or if you have a family or more than two people you live with. And I included a cheat sheet on how to hire a chef. The step-by-step process. And it's available in the resources section beneath this video and it's just called hiring a chef. Hiring a chef cheatsheet. And [Rit 01:42:37] actually created this for me because Rit is the one who hired our chef in New York [inaudible 01:42:45] and he's going to hire our chef in LA too. And to Rit created this and he explains how to do it all. So, general tips; how many times they should cook per week; what schedules they should cook on; options for finding a personal chef. You can like post on Facebook and he's provided you with everything. He then has provided you with the exact thing to like copy-paste to post. Then searching for chef on Instagram and different search terms you can search for. Google searching for healthy chefs and different search terms or posting a job ad on Indeed or any other job board. And even a followup message to followup with these people with too. And so you can just follow this process to find chef and hire one. And this process works because Rit has used it to hire us a really good chef in New York and then he used again to get one over here. So that's how you do that. And there's also a cheatsheet on delegating. It's called Number 3 Delegating. And it shows the relentless improvement project, life maintenance tasks, and how to delegate Type 1 waste. So there's quite a lot of resources on this module. So that's how you get food off your plate. No pun intended. Now delegating other stuff. So food is a huge one. Why? Because we have to do it. We have to eat twice a day minimum. Like we have to have breakfast, lunch, and dinner but luckily, you know, breakfast can just be a smoothie, so it's mostly lunch and dinner. There's two times a day, seven days a week, that's fourteen damn times and it's complicated. And you need raw materials. And then you need to clean up afterwards. It's just a real job. And so get rid of food and it will change you're life. And then you also want to get rid of other stuff. And I've categorized other stuff as just everything else. So cleaning, laundry, repairs around the house, mowing the lawns, doing the gardening, everything else that is Type 1 waste. And if you want to hire task-specific contractors on demand. This is a really good option if you need somebody to pick things up, assemble furniture, clean something, project, et cetera. And it's called TaskRabbit and you can go to consulting.com/task-rabbit, URL is on the screen. And I know this is in the United States, if it's not in your country well you could see if there's something similar to this. All right. And I've use this thing. It actually works really well. And so when I got LA I needed some furniture and so I looked online and I found the furniture I wanted to get from Ikea. And so I bought I online and then I selected the pick option. Right. So I didn't go to Ikea and look. I looked online. Saved myself the commute. And then I purchased it and then I needed someone to go pick it up for me. So then I hired somebody on here to pick up the furniture from Ikea. Same day. Bring it over here to my house. And then carry it up the stairs and stuff. Unbox it. Take the trash away. And go dump the trash at a dump. And then also assemble the damn furniture. So screw it together, put it all together, do everything. Right. This is the difference between people who know the value of time and people who don't. If you own a business and you're driving to go and pick up furniture, then you're an idiot. If you own a business and you are actually assembling Ikea, then you're an idiot. You can hire someone for like 14 bucks on here to do all of that crap for you. You don't need to pick things up. You don't need to drop things off. You don't need to assemble furniture. You don't need to lift thing around. You don't need to do anything yourself. You can get somebody here to do it for you, same day, really cheap. And a good example of this is my gym gear just arrived in LA so this will give you another idea about how ruthless I am with efficiency. So when we got to LA, I didn't even look at the gym options. I told Rit to find them. So Rit researched every Gym option and how close it was to my house and then he put together a list of the top three gyms that were suitable and how long it would take for me to commute there. And it was 10 minutes each way. And I said that just will not do. I am not commuting 10 minutes each way. That's 20 damn minutes. And then I'll probably have to wait. I'll probably hae to find a park, swipe a damn card to get in, I'll have to remember to bring that card to the damn gym. All this crap. And I'm not having that. That's just a waste. So like Rit said, "All right. Well let's install one in you garage." And I was like, "That sounds way better." He says, "Zero seeking commute." And then he went and bought all the equipment online. So I didn't even buy the equipment online. Rit went and did it all. And handled. So I didn't look at the gym options. I didn't look how long it would take. Rit did it then he told me then I made quick decision; let's buy the gym gear. And then I didn't buy it, he did it. He organized the delivery of it and then it got delivered here today. And it's all sitting in the garage and it's like all in palates and things. And so a normal would pull out a box cutter knife and start assembling that damn gym gear themself. There is no way that I'm gonna do that. It's a big job and it's just not worth my time. So instead what I'll do is I'll get someone from TaskRabbit to do it. And they'll happily do it. And this is what I'm talking about. Just be smarter with you time. And you can see it's good story there to learn kind of how I go through this process. If I have the option to have gym in my garage or a gym that's 10 minutes away, I'm going to take the one my garage. Because 10 minutes a day twice a day, that's 20 minutes, and then five times week; that's more than an hour. Over a year; that's getting up to like probably the equivalent of two weeks. So I just have a gym in my garage instead of going to one, I have a two week advantage. Two weeks. There's two weeks of life. Do I want to spend two weeks of life commuting to gym or doing something else? Doing something else. All right, so you've go to think about everything like this. Relentlessly. Hopefully I'm saying to drive this point home. And then another place ... another thing to do, which is what I recommend, is to hire a personal maid or a personal house assistant. And this is a good option if you want to find full stack house maid to take care of everything for you. And I really recommend this. Andrew Argue did this and it's helped him immensely. And what I mean by like a full stack house maid is this person will just do everything for you. So you want to find someone ... You're gonna have to look a bit harder to find this person. And then you've gotta get them to cook your food. They're gonna probably buy your groceries. Then they're gonna take your groceries, put them in the fridge and pantry and things. They're gonna cook your food, clean the dishes, they're going to manage everything. They're gonna clean your house, they're gonna do your washing, you're laundry. They're gonna make your bed, put your sheets back on the bed, like fold laundry. They're gonna look to make sure if things inside like your shampoo or your deodorant and things are getting low. If they're getting low, they'll order new ones. If you're running low on dish liquid, they'll order more of it. They've got an Amazon login. They manage everything. They go get your mail from your mailbox. They open it, the sort it into trash and then they find the bills that need to paid. They pay the bills. They do everything. If a light bulb goes, they replace it. They do everything. They take the trash out. You literally don't have to run your household. It's like someone to just run your household. This is a really powerful think, I recommend you do it. And to get one of these you just go to Craigslist and you gotta write up a job ad or you could post on Facebook and write up a job ad and say what you're looking for. And find someone, train them, and iterate and optimize and standardize the process you use to work with them. And this is a secret weapon. You have one of these, you've got like yourself an extra few months a year to do work with. Now let's talk about standardizing and creating protocols of operation. So standardizing is when we identify a best practice for completing a task and we set it as the standard. And human civilization is built on layers upon layers of standardization. Some examples: Time. You know time is a standard. Like time, we don't even know what that is but we just gave it this name time and we gave it seconds and minutes and hours. It's a system. It's a standardized system that everyone around the world uses so that we can know when to meet somebody. You know, imaging trying to meet somebody for lunch somewhere without time. You'd be like, "I'll meet you when the sun is there. Like between that tree and between that building. All right?" And if four darks from now. Like, "I'll meet you four darks from now when the sun's between the tree." No shit. That's what people would have had to do before time. Most people don't think about this stuff, but time is an invented standard concept. Measurements. So people didn't used to have measurements. They just say, "Oh, about this big." And just show them with their hand. Now we've got standardized measurements. Then laws. There didn't used to be those. So standardized laws and punishments and behaviors. Languages and money and currencies. Right? These are all standardized practices. And without standards, there would be no order and everything would be chaos. And imagine trying to buy food if every shop used it's own currency and it's own language and it's own unique hours of operation. Imagine if all theses shops just decided to be like, "Oh, just open from 1:00 am in the morning to like 2:00 am in the morning. And that I'll just be closed." And then another shop was just like, "Oh, I'll just be open from 8:00 'til 9:00. All right." But it would be impossible to do anything because it would just be so chaotic you could never figure out a pattern. And instead, you know, we tend to have the 9:00 to 5:00 in the week. And the weeks are another standard. Monday through Friday then the weekends and then all of this is just standard. You know it would be impossible without standards. So what can we learn from this by looking through history? Well, standards make us efficient and it allows us to work faster with less chaos. And we've understood that standards help and without standards it's chaos. So, therefore, we should try to introduce some standards into our life. And you want to standardize your life. You want to identify the things you do every day, week, month, year and routine schedule them and turn them into a standard. And to give you some personal examples from me: Every Sunday is the day I spend with my wife and I don't work at all. I always finish work by 9:30 pm and I can hang out with her then. And we take four vacations every year. 90 days, they're 90 days apart. Every 90 days for even days total. And by setting theses standards, my wife doesn't have to ask me if and when we're doing things. She just knows and so do I. Right? So if my wife's like, "Oh, when will Sam be done with work?" She knows. Or like, "What's Sam doing now?" She knows. She doesn't have to ask, she just knows. And then, "I wonder when I could do this thing with Sam? Oh, it'll be on Sunday. So we can schedule in for Sunday." And, "I wonder when I can ask him this?" Well, she knows. And then vacations. We know. They're all standardized. All right. How long will it be? Seven days. How often? Every 90. And then we align them on the equinoxes so we know exactly when the re gonna be. Because the business world moves in quarters, you've got Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4 and the seasons roll like that too so do the equinoxes so that's kind of how I aligned the vacations. And those are plotted in my war map at the start of every year and then I know when those are and I plot everything else around that. And in Quantum Mastermind, we do three live events per year and they go for three days each from 10:00 am 'til 6:00 pm. And they happen every four months. So that's standardized too. So everyone in Quantum knows when to expect that. Q&Q calls in Quantum happen on a Tuesday at 7:00. And everything's standardized so everyone knows. Like my wife knows, I know, like Rit knows, my team knows, my assistant knows, my customers know. These are standards that helps everyone to integrate with each and be efficient without having to communicate. Because when you set a standard, it saves people having to ask questions and things because they just know. And that's the power of this. And this is a serious weapon for efficiency. And more examples of standardizing. Communication. You can standardize your channel. Say this is the only way that you can communicate with me. And so my company, my family, like my mom and my dad and my sisters and my wife, all know to use Slack for communication. Nothing else. So if someone messages me on Facebook, I probably won't respond. If somebody calls me, my phone will be off. People know not to leave a voicemail because I tell them to. On the voicemail box that I've got, it says, "Hi, this is Sam. I don't check my voicemail so don't leave me a message." Right? And so I don't check my voicemail. I don't answer my phone and people know that and no one has my phone number anyway. I don't do texts. I don't use social media or anything. And I only check email like once every one or two days. And I also don't check my mail. So if someone wants to get in touch with me, they've gotta use Slack. And you might think, "Oh, but that's being cruel." It's actually being nice because it makes things simple. Everyone knows how to get in touch with me and it happens really effectively and efficiently because it makes it simple. So standardize your communication channel. You'll notice I do that with my training programs too. I say, "If you want help, first of all try the Hive Mind search. Because we've probably all ready asked it." And then you can ask for help in the Facebook group. And if you still need help, well you can attend one of the two Q&A calls that run every week. And if you still need help, then you can email support. Right? So I've standardized it. Not only the different channels but the sequence in which to go through those channels. And I also say if somebody messages or tries to communicate with us in way that isn't what I just said, nothing will happen. So I'm standardizing. Right? It makes it simple. It makes it easy. And it also makes us better at helping people. If we said, "Oh, you can contact us however you want whenever you want all the time." Then we wouldn't actually be able to help our customers. But because we've standardized it, people know what to expect and we deliver that and we're really good at it. Like we're very fast and efficient at it. And it just runs like clockwork. So inventory. So I consider my inventory depleted when it's less than two. And I order more at this stage so it's never equal to zero. Now, let me explain what this means. This is what normal people do: They buy a deodorant, let's say it's a roll on deodorant stick, and then it runs out on day they're like, "Oh, I need to buy some more deodorant." And now they don't have any. And now they're gotta go to a store and buy some or order some online and wait for it to come. And the don't have any deodorant so now they're in a bit of an issue. This is stupid. Right? You don't need to treat zero as zero. You can treat one as zero. And this is what you do. So what I do is I order two deodorant. Right? And then I use one of them and then what I do is when that one deodorant that I'm using is depleted, then I throw it in the trash and I order another one at that point. So I treat one as my zero. Very simply rule. I do this with everything. Toothpaste: One equals zero. Even with LaCroix, we'll actually treat like six boxes as zero. You know because I always want to make ... I don't want to make sure we run out. So there's always like six boxes and as soon as we get back down to six, I'll order more. But actually I don't even order it, my assistant orders it. I've just had to order it recently since we're over here in LA. But even my assistant she had rule, you know, she would come into my apartment everyday and check the fridge and if we were less than six boxes on LaCroix she would order more and she'd always make sure they were in the fridge and we never ran out. And the same with incense. If we ever get below like six boxes, I'll buy more. This is a really simple rule and it will honestly make your life so much more efficient. Don't wait until you run out of something to order more of it, treat one as your zero. And in clothing. So I find something I like and then wear the same thing every day. So I wear the same shoes every day. The same type of socks every day. The same type of t-shirts every day. The same shorts every day and the same type of underwear. Now the key here is that you don't wear this exact same clothes every day, because otherwise it would be unhygienic. It would smell. So I find something I like and then I buy like five pairs of it. And then that way you can get a couple of different colors and also you can remain hygienic while style wearing the same thing. And this is a really good hack. This one saves you a ton of time and energy. And in drinks. So I drink the same type of almond milk and, as you've probably seen, I drink LaCroix as my go to drink. And that's pretty obvious, because everyone has now adopted that as the official consulting.com drink. So that's another example of standardizing. You know once I find LaCroix I'm like, "Oh, this is it. Let's just go and let's just have this." Simple. Means that I don't to like experiment around with all these different drinks. Or think, "Oh, what am I gonna drink?" It's just simple. Done. And then in grooming. So I get the same haircut. I use the same beard trimmer. I even know the setting I have it at. So I don't use a shaver like one that goes directly on the skin because that's time consuming, those things, to do a good job. And it's also you need to replace your razor's all the time and it's a real pain in the ass. And you need shaving cream and all that. It's inefficient. It's a waste. So I instead have an electric beard trimming device that's just a battery charged thing. And it's way cheaper. It costs $19 to buy one time and it's lasted me for four years so far. So it's way cheaper than disposable razor blades. And you don't need any ... So it's way cheaper than disposable razor blades and you don't need any shaving cream. It makes it easier to travel with and everything. And I remember the setting, just 1.2 millimeters. I don't want it completely clean-shaven. I also don't want it too long, so I know just 1.2 millimeters, simple. All right? So I even optimized that. I used the same hair product, the same deodorant, the same cologne. I have four years. Honestly, like more than ten years. And then one everything. I try to only have one of everything, so one bank account with one bank. You don't need to have a bank account with Chase and with like ten other banks. You only need one. And then within that bank, you only need one account. You don't need all these different damn accounts. You only need one debit card. You don't need all these different credit cards with all these different banks and all these different accounts. One bank, one account within that bank and then one debit card attached to that one account within that one bank. And the you only need one email address. I only have one, that's it. I have no others. I only have one Google drive attached to that email and one calendar attached to that email. And then you know I only have one [inaudible 02:05:15] using that email again. I only have one phone. It's my cellphone and it's off. And I only really have one website. The samevens.com is basically just a page and it's mostly consulting.com. You know you wanna simplify, one of everything. It's a really good rule. And then you also wanna have default responses. So if somebody asks me if I wanna meet up, do a podcast, et cetera, the default reply is "no." This... It's like, you know, [inaudible 02:05:47] But, otherwise, it's just "no." I don't have to think about it, it's just, "no." 'Cause I know what I need to do and what I need to to isn't this, so it's a "no." Done. By having this default reply, I need very actually to think about it, it's just "no." In fact, my assistant, Sarah, she's actually trained. If people email through, she has access to my inbox and if anyone wants to do an interview with me, she just says, "No." I don't even have to say, "No." She does it.And then meals. I find healthy meals that I like and then we add them to a recipe list and rotate them weekly. We even have standard, not only do we have a chef, not only does that chef buy the food, organize it, do the dishes and everything, but we have standardized meal plans, too so that she knows what to do and everything's routinized. Here's a good... depiction of how standardization works. What we're trying to do with improvement, and we're trying to improve ourselves, our environment, our routine, we're trying to improve everything, our business. With improvement, we're really trying to push a rock uphill. We're seeking perfection and it's hard. What happens is what happens without standardization, all of your improvements will roll back with time. You might make all of these improvements and you're pushing this rock uphill, but then say you need to go and push another rock up a hill and improve that, then this rock just falls back down again. Then you have to... Once you push this rock up, you have to jump over the other one and push it back up again and then the other one drops down again. All right. You never actually get to improve very far. The key is standardization. The only way to ensure improvements are sustained overtime is to standardize them. That's the power of it. You know, when they came up with this whole time concept, back in the day, they probably worked out. Oh wow, this is pretty... this has really improved things, having this time concept, so they didn't forget about it and then not have it. They made sure that time was standardized and it's probably become the most standardized things in the world. Everyone uses the time standard. I've included some food recipes, as well. I've done this to give you an example of standardizing just to show you how it can be done and to help you with your own meal prep. I've included my own personal food recipes cheat sheet. Rit put this together for you, too. Not only have we showed you how to hire a chef, with instructions. How to hire a chef with the templates and everything, but we have also shown you, you know, my own personal food recipes. It's just called "Food Recipes Cheat Sheet." It's available for download beneath this video in the "resources" section. Rit put this together for you and it's just got a whole bunch of different meal options that we're.. and it's explains the instructions, the ingredients, the serving size and what meal it's for, and everything. These are designed to be healthy, nutritious, tasty and have good protein in them and all that. Now, what you want to do with this is number 1, just understand how standardization works. Even though we've got to shave, even if we've got a routine and a plan and all of this, we're wanting to standardize the meal plan and the available recipes for food. Why? Well, if we have a meal, and it tastes really good, and it's healthy, then we want to repeat that meal. What Rit does is he tries different meals, meal plans, and then chef cooks them and then if I say, "This one's good," then he'll make note that we'll repeat this one again. We might do, like might most favorite ones we'll do once or twice a week. I would like to do them more often than that, but my wife likes some variety. We've... I would like to eat almost the same thing all the damn time, but my wife likes variety, so I've kind of found the balance between consistently giving me the meals I like and giving my wife enough variety. It's funny. I can even tell you the data points for those. My wife can't handle a meal, any... really... she needs the frequency to be no it can't be any more frequent then one every 14 days. So, she needs to basically rotate through 28 possible combinations of food every 14 days. So she can't repeat the same meal twice within a 14 day combination. So, we've pretty much optimized this, and you can figure this stuff out too it just means that there's gonna be less drama. Like how many couples spend time talking about," oh what are we gonna eat". And then their like " I don't know, what do you want? I don't know what do you want? I don't know, should we order something online? Oh I don't know what to get". And then their looking at their computer and and hour goes by and now they're pissed off at each other and having an argument. Now their hungry, and now they're gonna get in the car and now they're gonna go drive and find some food, but now it's too late and everything's closed and the only thing that's left is McDonald's and they know that they're gonna regret that so they get it anyway. And then they regret it and then they're even angry at each other. And they wasted six hours. Alright, this stops that. Make sure you remain healthy, you eat on the schedule, and you don't have any arguments, and it's optimized so that you like the meals. And also you don't argue about it. And so there's all sorts of different meals here I think there's a total of like 28 pages. And what I recommend doing is you can try these if you want. And if you don't like them, put an x next to it, if you do like them put a check next to it. And then just tell your chef to cook more of the ones with checks, and don't cook with the ones with the x's. And then you can start introducing new meals and experimenting with those. And then you can find you perfect kind of meal list that you like, and your perfect rotation schedule. Ultimately, I think you'll want to have 28 different meals that you love. And then you want to rotate them on a 14 day basis. So that means you're only having the same thing twice in a 14 day period. That way your mind will not even notice any pattern. That is a long enough time I risen that your mind won't notice and it will just feel like you're always trying different food, you're never getting sick of anything. But yet, you've still got like a nice rotation of food. So yeah, you can see the point I take all of this stuff to. And you might think oh this is over the top man, yeah it is. But you know, the results I get are over the top. So, if you wanna get if you wanna achieve over the top results, you gotta go over the top. And you know this is this is the sort of stuff that it takes to chase greatness. And I've also included a the slides on standardizing. So creating protocols of operation um and some examples of standardizing, and how you can do it. Honestly, this will change your life if you do it properly. And this little diagram too. So you got the standardizing summary number four. And you've also got the food recipes cheat sheet. So it is a lot of resources a lot of information in this module. But man will this change your life and turn you into a machine. Now lets talk about decisions and maximizing your decision half life. So decision fatigue. The more choices you make throughout the day, the harder each one becomes for your brain. And eventually, it looks for short cuts. Like, becoming restless so you can't seem to pay attention to thing like you're trying to do something but you keep getting distracted and you keep pinging over here and then oh I'm suppose to be on this thing and I suppose to be on that thing. And you're all over the place. You know you probably got decision fatigue. Or you zone out. You know you're just staring at nothing. And you're like oh whoa sorry what was going on. Or you just do nothing. That's what most people default to. Alright let go to sit on that couch and watch some Netflix. So that's decision fatigue. And really this little diagram over here sums it up. The more decisions you make in a day, the worse of quality that decision gets. So, this is why we try to remove everything. Like, we don't want to be buying groceries. We don't want to have to be commuting to the gym. We don't want to have to be you know buying a stick of deodorant. We don't want to be you know thinking what am I going to have to eat or cook food or do dishes. Because all of these are decisions. And they start taking you know, taking a toll on you. And it might not seem like anything. But it is getting you. Believe me it's getting you. And it's getting you bad. If someone has to do all that crap and someone else doesn't, the person who doesn't have to do that crap has a massive advantage. And you want to secure this advantage for yourself. And you wanna look at your decision half life. And decision half life is the amount of time a decision lasts for before it has to be made again. And here is an example for a short half life decision. So lets say I'm hungry and I need food. I could take one hour to get food now, and it all lasts six hours in my stomach before it digests and I get hungry again. And then, I'm going to have to make this decision all over again. And so this means one decision takes one hour to make that decision and fully execute it. And then it has a six hour half life. Alright so one decision, one hour of process, six hour half life. But then, here's an example of the same scenario but with a long half life decision. So let's say I'm hungry and I need food. I will take one hour to hire a chef, and they will make lunch and dinner for me for years. Alright. So one decision, one hour, and a three year half life. And you know what's crazy? Is that honestly, to hire the chef, takes it takes probably the same amount of time as it takes to order a damn meal or prepare a meal. Like, once you've got a chef, it's done. And you've never got to think about it again. So most people have to think about what am I what am I going to have to eat twice a day every six hours like every single day of the week for the whole year for their whole life. But you can make one decision in one hour and fix that for life. This is what I'm talking about. This is what you need to do. You need to be mindful of your time and your energy, you need to focus. You need to prevent decision fatigue. And you need to make long half life decisions. Smart people make long half life decisions. They make a decision once that will last forever. And here's a prime example. Here's Steve Jobs and this is him in 98, 99, 2001 and here in 2011 and he's still wearing the same stuff. Alright, this is what I mean. This is not a coincidence. If you google this, you will see that a lot of the most successful people in the world do this. Steve Jobs, Barack Obama, wear the same clothes everyday. Mark Zuckerberg and there's a lot more of them. You know it's a common trait among high performing people. Because of this, decision fatigue. You know Jobs just had to choose that outfit once and then it was done. So you wanna ask yourself these two questions whenever your making a decision. How long will this decision last before I have to make it again? And, how can I make this decision once and have it last for years? And you want to stop making short half life decisions and start making long half life decisions. Because once you've made it once and it's done forever, then it won't come back at you again. And then the more of these you make, then the more free time you've got per day to focus on the things that are important to achieving you vision and principles. And now finally lets talk about execution through put tracking and optimization. So, what is throughput? Well throughput really is flow of value. And throughput is the continuous movement of flow through value in a system. So I've talked a lot about systems, inputs, processes, outputs, feedbacks, environments. Like the realm of thing that we're looking for what performance is all about is it's about throughput. So, it's about just pumping value through this pipe. It's about executing pure value activities everyday. You know you don't wanna be doing activities that are wasteful. And you don't wanna be doing activities that don't contribute to your goal but are still necessary. You wanna delegate and automate those things. And you don't wanna have to be making decisions that can be made once and never made again. Because then you're just fully unblocking this pipe so that you can pump just as much value through it as humanly possible. We're trying to identify the bottle necks, we're trying to unblock them, turn open that faucet even more. Pump more water through. Keep looking for the next block. Keep pumping more through. And it's just a relentless process. Of removing bottlenecks, increasing volume, removing bottlenecks, increasing volume and getting the stream more pure. So removing these things that aren't necessary and getting the purity level ride up and that's when value flows. And the longer I've been in business you know the more I've been able to do this. And you know this year we'll make more than 30 million. And really I was making how long ago has it been now, I've been in business for like six years and I started off making zero aright. So how did I go from zero to like 100 grand to like 500 grand to 1.2 to 2.4 and then up to like 18 to 20 to 30 something million. Throughput. It's all about throughput. Removing those bottlenecks, pumping through as much value as humanly possible and systemizing and optimizing the hell out of everything. Not just in business, in life too. You can see the extent I've gone to by showing you those things. Like meal plans, rotations, shifts, standardized and routineized you know time with my wife, meditation, exercise. I've gone into my diet and optimized the food and ingredients and nutrients, the exercise, the sleep, the temperature in which the room is when I sleep, my resting heart rate. Like you've seen the level of detail I've gone into here, it's what it's about. That's how you get more throughput. That's how you go from 100 grand, well they say you go from 0 to 30 something million a year in like 5 6 years. Throughput. And it's all about throughput. So a quick recap. So so far in weeks seven we've shown you how to set your vision, mission, and principles. We did that first. That was module one in week seven. And then reverse engineer them back to the current day. So that you can optimize yourself, your actions, and behavior in the most efficient way possible. And it's all about throughput. So you wanna clearly define the goal, find the best actions to achieve that goal, and then execute intensely and consistently over a long period of time with relentless never ending improvement and efficiency. And throughput equals continuous flow of intense deliberate action. You know, I have not achieved what I've achieved with any miracle effort. I have never done any one off thing that's just exploded, honestly, never. I actually don't have any impressive launches any impressive events or any impressive like one off kind of boom moments those don't happen. I don't seek those. What I seek is consistency over long periods of time, and efficiency. So I try to make money every minute of everyday 24/7 3 6 5 even at 4a.m. on Christmas Day, someone somewhere around the world will be buying some of our stuff right? So we're making money every hour of every day every day of the year 24/7 3 6 5. And you know we our company is working like a machine 24/7 3 6 5. It's processing leads, it's following up with people, it's advertising to people, marketing to people, there's people doing support tickets, there's people doing [inaudible 02:24:52] all hours of the day, all days of the week. Weekends don't exist to us. Like, country limitations don't exist to us. None of these things exist to us. We've got this thing just flowing. Like, we've opened up this massive big pipe. And we're just flowing value through it 24/7 3 6 5. And that's what it's all about. It's all about trying to get value to flow. Identifying the system, identifying the goal, identifying the actions that contribute to the goal, doing more of them, and then removing all of the crap that gets in the way. So that that value can just flow well. And the more flow of value yet the more money you make. And that's how it happens. So, get after it, and stay after it. And when Sam Walton was the richest man in the world, and Wal-mart was the largest company on earth, a reporter asked him what his secret was. And Sam responded, " well, I just got after it and stayed after it". And that's what it's about it's about execution, tracking, and optimization. It's about just getting after it and staying after it and then measuring it to make sure that you can see whether you're actually catching up to it. So execute, track, and optimize. Go after your vision, mission, and principles, like a heat seeking missile. And make sure you're executing value actions daily. Make sure you're tracking your progress using the tools we've provided. So we've provided you with a lot of tools in week seven. Like the warm up calendar, the health tracking sheet, we've got the rice project scoring tool, we have all of our metrics and KPI's that we use for Facebook ads and all of that which we've covered in other weeks. I've given you all of the benchmarks and KPI's for measuring everything from [inaudible 02:26:56] to applications, to ads. I mean we've got this whole thing dialed in pretty damn well. We know all the benchmarks, all the systems, all the optimization strategies, and we've even given you all the tools. For the mind set stuff too for everything. For your time, we've got it all covered. So all you have to do is identify that goal, go after it, stay after it, track your progress daily, using the tools we've provided, and measure your progress towards your goal and against your baseline. And optimize by removing wastes and doing more of what works. That's it, that's all that success is. It's just you know if you wanna be very successful, do this very well. You wanna fail? Don't do this at all. You wanna be okay? Well just do this to an okay level. Alright the level at which you execute this paragraph here will determine the level at which you succeed. And it's all about continuous improvement of all of these things. Your environment and designing it for optimal results, removing the things that create bad actions, stimulating the things that create good actions you know. Set your environment up so that it provokes you to do the right thing, not the wrong thing. And then routines. Ingraining automatic excellence. So don't rely on willpower, make it a routine. Make excellence and winning a default, not an effort. And then delegating. So hire people to handle type one waste. If you can't get rid of something, get someone else to do it. And then standardizing, creating protocols of operation. So, you know, set standards so that things can run smoothly, and people don't have to communicate. You know I barley have to communicate with anyone. Because we have really good standards. I barley have to communicate with my team, I barely have to communicate with my customers. And it's a good thing, like, it's not like I'm letting anybody down. Everything's running smoothly, but we just don't have to communicate all the damn time because communication is not equal or equivalent to success or value. It's just a necessary thing that must happen. So if you wanna really minimize communication, then standardize. And then decisions. We wanna maximize your decision half life and avoid decision fatigue on stupid things. And if you continuously improve all of these things, and you get after it and you stay after it and you never ever give up then you're gonna be very successful. Scarily successful. You know I've only been at this for like a few years and I haven't even have scratched the surface. Man I've been able to go way harder on this and I got like 50 60 years left to go. So, who knows what's gonna happen. And these strategies turn man in to machine. So you wanna lock you terminator gaze on your target and relentlessly pursue it till it's done. Let's get to work. 